Command line options {#operations_cli}
====================

Envoy is driven both by a JSON configuration file as well as a set of
command line options. The following are the command line options that
Envoy supports.

::: {.option}
-c \<path string\>, \--config-path \<path string\>

*(optional)* The path to the v2 `JSON/YAML/proto3 configuration
file <config>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. If this flag is missing,
`--config-yaml`{.interpreted-text role="option"} is required. This will
be parsed as a `v2 bootstrap configuration file
<config_overview_bootstrap>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. Valid
extensions are `.json`, `.yaml`, `.pb` and `.pb_text`, which indicate
JSON, YAML, [binary
proto3](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/encoding)
and [text
proto3](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/cpp/google.protobuf.text_format)
formats respectively.
:::

::: {.option}
\--config-yaml \<yaml string\>

*(optional)* The YAML string for a bootstrap configuration. If
`--config-path`{.interpreted-text role="option"} is also set, the values
in this YAML string will override and merge with the bootstrap loaded
from `--config-path`{.interpreted-text role="option"}. Because YAML is a
superset of JSON, a JSON string may also be passed to
`--config-yaml`{.interpreted-text role="option"}.

Example overriding the node id on the command line:

> ``` {.console}
> ./envoy -c bootstrap.yaml --config-yaml "node: {id: 'node1'}"
> ```
:::

::: {.option}
\--bootstrap-version \<integer\>

*(optional)* The API version to load the bootstrap as. The value should
be a single integer, e.g. to parse the bootstrap configuration as V3,
specify `--bootstrap-version 3`. If unset, Envoy will attempt to load
the bootstrap as the previous API version and upgrade it to the latest.
If that fails, Envoy will attempt to load the configuration as the
latest version.
:::

::: {.option}
\--mode \<string\>

*(optional)* One of the operating modes for Envoy:

-   `serve`: *(default)* Validate the JSON configuration and then serve
    traffic normally.
-   `validate`: Validate the JSON configuration and then exit, printing
    either an \"OK\" message (in which case the exit code is 0) or any
    errors generated by the configuration file (exit code 1). No network
    traffic is generated, and the hot restart process is not performed,
    so no other Envoy process on the machine will be disturbed.
:::

::: {.option}
\--admin-address-path \<path string\>

*(optional)* The output file path where the admin address and port will
be written.
:::

::: {.option}
\--local-address-ip-version \<string\>

*(optional)* The IP address version that is used to populate the server
local IP address. This parameter affects various headers including what
is appended to the X-Forwarded-For (XFF) header. The options are `v4` or
`v6`. The default is `v4`.
:::

::: {.option}
\--base-id \<integer\>

*(optional)* The base ID to use when allocating shared memory regions.
Envoy uses shared memory regions during
`hot restart <arch_overview_hot_restart>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.
Most users will never have to set this option. However, if Envoy needs
to be run multiple times on the same machine, each running Envoy will
need a unique base ID so that the shared memory regions do not conflict.
:::

::: {.option}
\--use-dynamic-base-id

*(optional)* Selects an unused base ID to use when allocating shared
memory regions. Using preselected values with
`--base-id`{.interpreted-text role="option"} is preferred, however. If
this option is enabled, it supersedes the `--base-id`{.interpreted-text
role="option"} value. This flag may not be used when the value of
`--restart-epoch`{.interpreted-text role="option"} is non-zero. Instead,
for subsequent hot restarts, set `--base-id`{.interpreted-text
role="option"} option with the selected base ID. See
`--base-id-path`{.interpreted-text role="option"}.
:::

::: {.option}
\--base-id-path \<path_string\>

*(optional)* Writes the base ID to the given path. While this option is
compatible with `--base-id`{.interpreted-text role="option"}, its
intended use is to provide access to the dynamic base ID selected by
`--use-dynamic-base-id`{.interpreted-text role="option"}.
:::

::: {.option}
\--concurrency \<integer\>

*(optional)* The number of
`worker threads <arch_overview_threading>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
to run. If not specified defaults to the number of hardware threads on
the machine. If set to zero, Envoy will still run one worker thread.
:::

::: {.option}
-l \<string\>, \--log-level \<string\>

*(optional)* The logging level. Non developers should generally never
set this option. See the help text for the available log levels and the
default.
:::

::: {.option}
\--component-log-level \<string\>

*(optional)* The comma separated list of logging level per component.
Non developers should generally never set this option. For example, if
you want [upstream]{.title-ref} component to run at [debug]{.title-ref}
level and [connection]{.title-ref} component to run at
[trace]{.title-ref} level, you should pass
`upstream:debug,connection:trace` to this flag. See `ALL_LOGGER_IDS` in
`/source/common/common/logger.h`{.interpreted-text role="repo"} for a
list of components.
:::

::: {.option}
\--cpuset-threads

*(optional)* This flag is used to control the number of worker threads
if `--concurrency`{.interpreted-text role="option"} is not set. If
enabled, the assigned cpuset size is used to determine the number of
worker threads on Linux-based systems. Otherwise the number of worker
threads is set to the number of hardware threads on the machine. You can
read more about cpusets in the [kernel
documentation](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/cgroup-v1/cpusets.txt).
:::

::: {.option}
\--log-path \<path string\>

*(optional)* The output file path where logs should be written. This
file will be re-opened when SIGUSR1 is handled. If this is not set, log
to stderr.
:::

::: {.option}
\--log-format \<format string\>

*(optional)* The format string to use for laying out the log message
metadata. If this is not set, a default format string
`"[%Y-%m-%d %T.%e][%t][%l][%n] [%g:%#] %v"` is used.

When used in conjunction with
`--log-format-prefix-with-location`{.interpreted-text role="option"} set
to 1, the logger can be configured to prefix `%v` by a file path and a
line number.

When used in conjunction with `--log-format-escaped`{.interpreted-text
role="option"}, the logger can be configured to log in a format that is
parsable by log viewers. Known integrations are documented in the
`application logging configuration <config_application_logs>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} section.

The supported format flags are (with example output):

%v

:   The actual message to log (\"some user text\")

%t

:   Thread id (\"1232\")

%P

:   Process id (\"3456\")

%n

:   Logger\'s name (\"filter\")

%l

:   The log level of the message (\"debug\", \"info\", etc.)

%L

:   Short log level of the message (\"D\", \"I\", etc.)

%a

:   Abbreviated weekday name (\"Tue\")

%A

:   Full weekday name (\"Tuesday\")

%b

:   Abbreviated month name (\"Mar\")

%B

:   Full month name (\"March\")

%c

:   Date and time representation (\"Tue Mar 27 15:25:06 2018\")

%C

:   Year in 2 digits (\"18\")

%Y

:   Year in 4 digits (\"2018\")

%D, %x

:   Short MM/DD/YY date (\"03/27/18\")

%m

:   Month 01-12 (\"03\")

%d

:   Day of month 01-31 (\"27\")

%H

:   Hours in 24 format 00-23 (\"15\")

%I

:   Hours in 12 format 01-12 (\"03\")

%M

:   Minutes 00-59 (\"25\")

%S

:   Seconds 00-59 (\"06\")

%e

:   Millisecond part of the current second 000-999 (\"008\")

%f

:   Microsecond part of the current second 000000-999999 (\"008789\")

%F

:   Nanosecond part of the current second 000000000-999999999
    (\"008789123\")

%p

:   AM/PM (\"AM\")

%r

:   12-hour clock (\"03:25:06 PM\")

%R

:   24-hour HH:MM time, equivalent to %H:%M (\"15:25\")

%T, %X

:   ISO 8601 time format (HH:MM:SS), equivalent to %H:%M:%S
    (\"13:25:06\")

%z

:   ISO 8601 offset from UTC in timezone (\[+/-\]HH:MM) (\"-07:00\")

%%

:   The % sign (\"%\")

%@

:   Source file and line (\"my_file.cc:123\")

%s

:   Basename of the source file (\"my_file.cc\")

%g

:   Full relative path of the source file (\"/some/dir/my_file.cc\")

%\#

:   Source line (\"123\")

%!

:   Source function (\"myFunc\")
:::

::: {.option}
\--log-format-prefix-with-location \<1\|0\>

*(optional)* This temporary flag allows replacing all entries of `"%v"`
in the log format by `"[%g:%#] %v"`. This flag is provided for migration
purposes only. If this is not set, a default value 0 is used.

**NOTE**: The flag will be removed at 1.17.0 release.
:::

::: {.option}
\--log-format-escaped

*(optional)* This flag enables application log sanitization to escape
C-style escape sequences. This can be used to prevent a single log line
from spanning multiple lines in the underlying log. This sanitizes all
escape sequences in [this
list](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/escape). Note that each
line\'s trailing whitespace characters (such as EOL characters) will not
be escaped.
:::

::: {.option}
\--restart-epoch \<integer\>

*(optional)* The
`hot restart <arch_overview_hot_restart>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
epoch. (The number of times Envoy has been hot restarted instead of a
fresh start). Defaults to 0 for the first start. This option tells Envoy
whether to attempt to create the shared memory region needed for hot
restart, or whether to open an existing one. It should be incremented
every time a hot restart takes place. The
`hot restart wrapper <operations_hot_restarter>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} sets the *RESTART_EPOCH* environment variable which should
be passed to this option in most cases.
:::

::: {.option}
\--enable-fine-grain-logging

*(optional)* Enables fine-grain logger with file level log control and
runtime update at administration interface. If enabled, main log macros
including [ENVOY_LOG]{.title-ref}, [ENVOY_CONN_LOG]{.title-ref},
[ENVOY_STREAM_LOG]{.title-ref} and [ENVOY_FLUSH_LOG]{.title-ref} will
use a per-file logger, and the usage doesn\'t need
[Envoy::Logger::Loggable]{.title-ref} any more. The administration
interface usage is similar. Please see [Administration
interface](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/operations/admin)
for more detail.
:::

::: {.option}
\--socket-path \<path string\>

*(optional)* The output file path to the socket address for
`hot restart <arch_overview_hot_restart>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.
Default to \"\@envoy_domain_socket\" which will be created in the
abstract namespace. Suffix \_{role}\_{id} is appended to provide name.
All envoy processes wanting to participate in hot-restart together must
use the same value for this option.

**NOTE**: The path started with \"@\" will be created in the abstract
namespace.
:::

::: {.option}
\--socket-mode \<string\>

*(optional)* The socket file permission for
`hot restart <arch_overview_hot_restart>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.
This must be a valid octal file permission, such as 644. The default
value is 600. This flag may not be used when
`--socket-path`{.interpreted-text role="option"} is start with \"@\" or
not set.
:::

::: {.option}
\--hot-restart-version

*(optional)* Outputs an opaque hot restart compatibility version for the
binary. This can be matched against the output of the
:<http:get>:[/hot_restart_version]{.title-ref} admin endpoint to
determine whether the new binary and the running binary are hot restart
compatible.
:::

::: {.option}
\--service-cluster \<string\>

*(optional)* Defines the local service cluster name where Envoy is
running. The local service cluster name is first sourced from the
`Bootstrap node
<envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Bootstrap.node>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} message\'s `cluster
<envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Node.cluster>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} field. This CLI option provides an alternative method for
specifying this value and will override any value set in bootstrap
configuration. It should be set if any of the following features are
used: `statsd <arch_overview_statistics>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`health check cluster
verification <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.HealthCheck.HttpHealthCheck.service_name_matcher>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`runtime override directory <envoy_v3_api_msg_config.bootstrap.v3.Runtime>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `user agent addition
<envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.add_user_agent>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"},
`HTTP global rate limiting <config_http_filters_rate_limit>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, `CDS <config_cluster_manager_cds>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, and `HTTP tracing
<arch_overview_tracing>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, either via this
CLI option or in the bootstrap configuration.
:::

::: {.option}
\--service-node \<string\>

*(optional)* Defines the local service node name where Envoy is running.
The local service node name is first sourced from the `Bootstrap node
<envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Bootstrap.node>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} message\'s `id
<envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Node.id>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} field. This CLI option provides an alternative method for
specifying this value and will override any value set in bootstrap
configuration. It should be set if any of the following features are
used: `statsd <arch_overview_statistics>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"},
`CDS
<config_cluster_manager_cds>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, and
`HTTP tracing
<arch_overview_tracing>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}, either via this
CLI option or in the bootstrap configuration.
:::

::: {.option}
\--service-zone \<string\>

*(optional)* Defines the local service zone where Envoy is running. The
local service zone is first sourced from the `Bootstrap node
<envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Bootstrap.node>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} message\'s `locality.zone
<envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Locality.zone>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} field. This CLI option provides an alternative method for
specifying this value and will override any value set in bootstrap
configuration. It should be set if discovery service routing is used and
the discovery service exposes `zone data
<envoy_v3_api_msg_config.endpoint.v3.LocalityLbEndpoints>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}, either via this CLI option or in the bootstrap
configuration. The meaning of zone is context dependent, e.g.
[Availability Zone
(AZ)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html)
on AWS, [Zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/) on
GCP, etc.
:::

::: {.option}
\--file-flush-interval-msec \<integer\>

*(optional)* The file flushing interval in milliseconds. Defaults to 10
seconds. This setting is used during file creation to determine the
duration between flushes of buffers to files. The buffer will flush
every time it gets full, or every time the interval has elapsed,
whichever comes first. Adjusting this setting is useful when tailing
`access logs <arch_overview_access_logs>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
in order to get more (or less) immediate flushing.
:::

::: {.option}
\--drain-time-s \<integer\>

*(optional)* The time in seconds that Envoy will drain connections
during a `hot restart <arch_overview_hot_restart>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} or when individual listeners are being modified or removed
via `LDS <arch_overview_dynamic_config_lds>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}. Defaults to 600 seconds (10 minutes). Generally the drain
time should be less than the parent shutdown time set via the
`--parent-shutdown-time-s`{.interpreted-text role="option"} option. How
the two settings are configured depends on the specific deployment. In
edge scenarios, it might be desirable to have a very long drain time. In
service to service scenarios, it might be possible to make the drain and
shutdown time much shorter (e.g., 60s/90s).
:::

::: {.option}
\--drain-strategy \<string\>

*(optional)* Determine behaviour of Envoy during the hot restart drain
sequence. During the drain sequence, the drain manager encourages
draining through terminating connections on request completion, sending
\"Connection: CLOSE\" on HTTP1, and sending GOAWAY on HTTP2.

-   `gradual`: *(default)* The percentage of requests encouraged to
    drain increases to 100% as the drain time elapses.
-   `immediate`: All requests are encouraged to drain as soon as the
    drain sequence begins.
:::

::: {.option}
\--parent-shutdown-time-s \<integer\>

*(optional)* The time in seconds that Envoy will wait before shutting
down the parent process during a hot restart. See the
`hot restart overview <arch_overview_hot_restart>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} for more information. Defaults to 900 seconds (15 minutes).
:::

::: {.option}
\--disable-hot-restart

*(optional)* This flag disables Envoy hot restart for builds that have
it enabled. By default, hot restart is enabled.
:::

::: {.option}
\--enable-mutex-tracing

*(optional)* This flag enables the collection of mutex contention
statistics
(`MutexStats <envoy_v3_api_msg_admin.v3.MutexStats>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"}) as well as a contention endpoint
(:<http:get>:[/contention]{.title-ref}). Mutex tracing is not enabled by
default, since it incurs a slight performance penalty for those Envoys
which already experience mutex contention.
:::

::: {.option}
\--allow-unknown-fields

*(optional)* Deprecated alias for
`--allow-unknown-static-fields`{.interpreted-text role="option"}.
:::

::: {.option}
\--allow-unknown-static-fields

*(optional)* This flag disables validation of protobuf configurations
for unknown fields. By default, the validation is enabled. For most
deployments, the default should be used which ensures configuration
errors are caught upfront and Envoy is configured as intended. Warnings
are logged for the first use of any unknown field and these occurrences
are counted in the `server.static_unknown_fields
<server_statistics>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} statistic.
:::

::: {.option}
\--reject-unknown-dynamic-fields

*(optional)* This flag disables validation of protobuf configuration for
unknown fields in dynamic configuration. By default, this flag is set
false, disabling validation for fields beyond bootstrap. This allows
newer xDS configurations to be delivered to older Envoys. This can be
set true for strict dynamic checking when this behavior is not wanted
but the default should be desirable for most Envoy deployments. Warnings
are logged for the first use of any unknown field and these occurrences
are counted in the
`server.dynamic_unknown_fields <server_statistics>`{.interpreted-text
role="ref"} statistic.
:::

::: {.option}
\--ignore-unknown-dynamic-fields

*(optional)* This flag disables validation of protobuf configuration for
unknown fields in dynamic configuration. Unlike setting
`--reject-unknown-dynamic-fields`{.interpreted-text role="option"} to
false, it does not log warnings or count occurrences of unknown fields,
in the interest of configuration processing speed. If
`--reject-unknown-dynamic-fields`{.interpreted-text role="option"} is
set to true, this flag has no effect.
:::

::: {.option}
\--disable-extensions \<extension list\>

*(optional)* This flag disabled the provided list of comma-separated
extension names. Disabled extensions cannot be used by static or dynamic
configuration, though they are still linked into Envoy and may run
start-up code or have other runtime effects. Extension names are created
by joining the extension category and name with a forward slash, e.g.
`grpc_credentials/envoy.grpc_credentials.file_based_metadata`.
:::

::: {.option}
\--version

*(optional)* This flag is used to display Envoy version and build
information, e.g.
`c93f9f6c1e5adddd10a3e3646c7e049c649ae177/1.9.0-dev/Clean/RELEASE/BoringSSL-FIPS`.

It consists of five slash-separated fields:

-   source revision - git commit from which Envoy was built,
-   release number - either release (e.g. `1.9.0`) or a development
    build (e.g. `1.9.0-dev`),
-   status of the source tree at the build time - either `Clean` or
    `Modified`,
-   build mode - either `RELEASE` or `DEBUG`,
-   TLS library - either `BoringSSL` or `BoringSSL-FIPS`.
:::
