1.15.0 (July 7, 2020)
=====================

Incompatible Behavior Changes
-----------------------------

*Changes that are expected to cause an incompatibility if applicable;
deployment changes are likely required*

-   build: official released binary is now built on Ubuntu 18.04,
    requires glibc \>= 2.27.
-   client_ssl_auth: the [auth_ip_white_list]{.title-ref} stat has been
    renamed to
    `auth_ip_allowlist <config_network_filters_client_ssl_auth_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   header to metadata: on_header_missing rules with empty values are
    now rejected (they were skipped before).
-   router: path_redirect now keeps query string by default. This
    behavior may be reverted by setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.preserve_query_string_in_path_redirects]{.title-ref}
    to false.
-   tls: fixed a bug where wilcard matching for \"\*.foo.com\" also
    matched domains of the form \"a.b.foo.com\". This behavior can be
    temporarily reverted by setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.fix_wildcard_matching]{.title-ref} to
    false.

Minor Behavior Changes
----------------------

*Changes that may cause incompatibilities for some users, but should not
for most*

-   access loggers: applied existing buffer limits to access logs, as
    well as `stats <config_access_log_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for logged / dropped logs. This can be reverted
    temporarily by setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.disallow_unbounded_access_logs]{.title-ref}
    to false.
-   build: runs as non-root inside Docker containers. Existing behaviour
    can be restored by setting the environment variable
    [ENVOY_UID]{.title-ref} to [0]{.title-ref}. [ENVOY_UID]{.title-ref}
    and [ENVOY_GID]{.title-ref} can be used to set the envoy user\'s
    [uid]{.title-ref} and [gid]{.title-ref} respectively.
-   health check: in the health check filter the
    `percentage of healthy servers in upstream clusters <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.health_check.v2.HealthCheck.cluster_min_healthy_percentages>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is now interpreted as an integer.
-   hot restart: added the option
    `--use-dynamic-base-id`{.interpreted-text role="option"} to select
    an unused base ID at startup and the option
    `--base-id-path`{.interpreted-text role="option"} to write the base
    id to a file (for reuse with later hot restarts).
-   http: changed early error path for HTTP/1.1 so that responses
    consistently flow through the http connection manager, and the http
    filter chains. This behavior may be temporarily reverted by setting
    runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.early_errors_via_hcm]{.title-ref} to
    false.
-   http: fixed several bugs with applying correct connection close
    behavior across the http connection manager, health checker, and
    connection pool. This behavior may be temporarily reverted by
    setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.fix_connection_close]{.title-ref} to
    false.
-   http: fixed a bug where the upgrade header was not cleared on
    responses to non-upgrade requests. Can be reverted temporarily by
    setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.fix_upgrade_response]{.title-ref} to
    false.
-   http: stopped overwriting [date]{.title-ref} response headers.
    Responses without a [date]{.title-ref} header will still have the
    header properly set. This behavior can be temporarily reverted by
    setting
    [envoy.reloadable_features.preserve_upstream_date]{.title-ref} to
    false.
-   http: stopped adding a synthetic path to CONNECT requests, meaning
    unconfigured CONNECT requests will now return 404 instead of 403.
    This behavior can be temporarily reverted by setting
    [envoy.reloadable_features.stop_faking_paths]{.title-ref} to false.
-   http: stopped allowing upstream 1xx or 204 responses with
    Transfer-Encoding or non-zero Content-Length headers. Content-Length
    of 0 is allowed, but stripped. This behavior can be temporarily
    reverted by setting
    [envoy.reloadable_features.strict_1xx_and_204_response_headers]{.title-ref}
    to false.
-   http: upstream connections will now automatically set ALPN when this
    value is not explicitly set elsewhere (e.g. on the upstream TLS
    config). This behavior may be temporarily reverted by setting
    runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.http_default_alpn]{.title-ref} to false.
-   listener: fixed a bug where when a static listener fails to be added
    to a worker, the listener was not removed from the active listener
    list.
-   router: extended to allow retries of streaming or incomplete
    requests. This removes stat
    [rq_retry_skipped_request_not_complete]{.title-ref}.
-   router: extended to allow retries by default when upstream responds
    with
    `x-envoy-overloaded <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-overloaded_set>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.

Bug Fixes
---------

*Changes expected to improve the state of the world and are unlikely to
have negative effects*

-   adaptive concurrency: fixed a minRTT calculation bug where requests
    started before the concurrency limit was pinned to the minimum would
    skew the new minRTT value if the replies arrived after the start of
    the new minRTT window.
-   buffer: fixed CVE-2020-12603 by avoiding fragmentation, and tracking
    of HTTP/2 data and control frames in the output buffer.
-   grpc-json: fixed a bug when in trailers only gRPC response (e.g.
    error) HTTP status code is not being re-written.
-   http: fixed a bug in the grpc_http1_reverse_bridge filter where
    header-only requests were forwarded with a non-zero content length.
-   http: fixed a bug where in some cases slash was moved from path to
    query string when
    `merging of adjacent slashes<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.merge_slashes>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is enabled.
-   http: fixed CVE-2020-12604 by changing
    `stream_idle_timeout <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.stream_idle_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to also defend against an HTTP/2 peer that does not open
    stream window once an entire response has been buffered to be sent
    to a downstream client.
-   http: fixed CVE-2020-12605 by including request URL in request
    header size computation, and rejecting partial headers that exceed
    configured limits.
-   http: fixed several bugs with applying correct connection close
    behavior across the http connection manager, health checker, and
    connection pool. This behavior may be temporarily reverted by
    setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.fix_connection_close]{.title-ref} to
    false.
-   listener: fixed CVE-2020-8663 by adding runtime support for
    `per-listener limits <config_listeners_runtime>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} on active/accepted connections.
-   overload management: fixed CVE-2020-8663 by adding runtime support
    for `global limits <config_overload_manager>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} on active/accepted connections.
-   prometheus stats: fixed the sort order of output lines to comply
    with the standard.
-   udp: the
    `reuse_port <envoy_api_field_Listener.reuse_port>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} listener option must now be specified for UDP listeners
    if concurrency is \> 1. This previously crashed so is considered a
    bug fix.
-   upstream: fixed a bug where Envoy would panic when receiving a GRPC
    SERVICE_UNKNOWN status on the health check.

Removed Config or Runtime
-------------------------

*Normally occurs at the end of the*
`deprecation period <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}

-   http: removed legacy connection pool code and their runtime
    features:
    [envoy.reloadable_features.new_http1_connection_pool_behavior]{.title-ref}
    and
    [envoy.reloadable_features.new_http2_connection_pool_behavior]{.title-ref}.

New Features
------------

-   access loggers: added file access logger config
    `log_format <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.access_loggers.file.v3.FileAccessLog.log_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access loggers: added GRPC_STATUS operator on logging format.
-   access loggers: added gRPC access logger config added
    `API version <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.access_loggers.grpc.v3.CommonGrpcAccessLogConfig.transport_api_version>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to explicitly set the version of gRPC service endpoint
    and message to be used.
-   access loggers: extended specifier for FilterStateFormatter to
    output
    `unstructured log string <config_access_log_format_filter_state>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   admin: added support for dumping EDS config at
    `/config_dump?include_eds <operations_admin_interface_config_dump_include_eds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   aggregate cluster: made route
    `retry_priority <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RetryPolicy.retry_priority>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} predicates work with
    `this cluster type <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.clusters.aggregate.v3.ClusterConfig>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   build: official released binary is now built on Ubuntu 18.04,
    requires glibc \>= 2.27.
-   build: official released binary is now built with Clang 10.0.0.
-   cluster: added an extension point for configurable
    `upstreams <envoy_v3_api_field_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.upstream_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   compressor: exposed generic
    `compressor <config_http_filters_compressor>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} filter to users.
-   config: added
    `identifier <config_cluster_manager_cds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} stat that reflects control plane identifier.
-   config: added
    `version_text <config_cluster_manager_cds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} stat that reflects xDS version.
-   decompressor: exposed generic
    `decompressor <config_http_filters_decompressor>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} filter to users.
-   dynamic forward proxy: added
    `SNI based dynamic forward proxy <config_network_filters_sni_dynamic_forward_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} support.
-   dynamic forward proxy: added configurable
    `circuit breakers <dns_cache_circuit_breakers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for resolver on DNS cache. This behavior can be
    temporarily disabled by the runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.enable_dns_cache_circuit_breakers]{.title-ref}.
    If this runtime feature is disabled, the upstream circuit breakers
    for the cluster will be used even if the
    `DNS Cache circuit breakers <dns_cache_circuit_breakers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} are configured.
-   dynamic forward proxy: added
    `allow_insecure_cluster_options<envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.clusters.dynamic_forward_proxy.v3.ClusterConfig.allow_insecure_cluster_options>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to allow disabling of auto_san_validation and auto_sni.
-   ext_authz filter: added
    `v2 deny_at_disable <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.ExtAuthz.deny_at_disable>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"},
    `v3 deny_at_disable <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.ext_authz.v3.ExtAuthz.deny_at_disable>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. This allows force denying protected paths while filter
    gets disabled, by setting this key to true.
-   ext_authz filter: added API version field for both
    `HTTP <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.ext_authz.v3.ExtAuthz.transport_api_version>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `Network <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.ext_authz.v3.ExtAuthz.transport_api_version>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} filters to explicitly set the version of gRPC service
    endpoint and message to be used.
-   ext_authz filter: added
    `v3 allowed_upstream_headers_to_append <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.ext_authz.v3.AuthorizationResponse.allowed_upstream_headers_to_append>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to allow appending multiple header entries (returned by
    the authorization server) with the same key to the original request
    headers.
-   fault: added support for controlling the percentage of requests that
    abort, delay and response rate limits faults are applied to using
    `HTTP headers <config_http_filters_fault_injection_http_header>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to the HTTP fault filter.
-   fault: added support for specifying grpc_status code in abort faults
    using
    `HTTP header <config_http_filters_fault_injection_http_header>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} or abort fault configuration in HTTP fault filter.
-   filter: added [upstream_rq_time]{.title-ref} stats to the GPRC stats
    filter. Disabled by default and can be enabled via
    `enable_upstream_stats <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.http.grpc_stats.v3.FilterConfig.enable_upstream_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   grpc: added support for Google gRPC
    `custom channel arguments <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.GrpcService.GoogleGrpc.channel_args>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   grpc-json: added support for streaming response using
    [google.api.HttpBody](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/api/httpbody.proto).
-   grpc-json: send a [x-envoy-original-method]{.title-ref} header to
    grpc services.
-   gzip filter: added option to set zlib\'s next output buffer size.
-   hds: updated to allow to explicitly set the API version of gRPC
    service endpoint and message to be used.
-   header to metadata: added support for regex substitutions on header
    values.
-   health checks: allowed configuring health check transport sockets by
    specifying
    `transport socket match criteria <envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.HealthCheck.transport_socket_match_criteria>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: added
    `local_reply config <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.local_reply_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to http_connection_manager to customize
    `local reply <config_http_conn_man_local_reply>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: added
    `stripping port from host header <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.strip_matching_host_port>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} support.
-   http: added support for proxying CONNECT requests, terminating
    CONNECT requests, and converting raw TCP streams into HTTP/2 CONNECT
    requests. See
    `upgrade documentation<arch_overview_upgrades>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for details.
-   listener: added in place filter chain update flow for tcp listener
    update which doesn\'t close connections if the corresponding network
    filter chain is equivalent during the listener update. Can be
    disabled by setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.listener_in_place_filterchain_update]{.title-ref}
    to false. Also added additional draining filter chain stat for
    `listener manager <config_listener_manager_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to track the number of draining filter chains and the
    number of in place update attempts.
-   logger: added `--log-format-prefix-with-location`{.interpreted-text
    role="option"} command line option to prefix \'%v\' with file path
    and line number.
-   lrs: added new
    *envoy_api_field_service.load_stats.v2.LoadStatsResponse.send_all_clusters*
    field in LRS response, which allows management servers to avoid
    explicitly listing all clusters it is interested in; behavior is
    allowed based on new \"envoy.lrs.supports_send_all_clusters\"
    capability in
    `client_features<envoy_v3_api_field_config.core.v3.Node.client_features>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field.
-   lrs: updated to allow to explicitly set the API version of gRPC
    service endpoint and message to be used.
-   lua: added
    `per route config <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.http.lua.v3.LuaPerRoute>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for Lua filter.
-   lua: added tracing to the `httpCall()` API.
-   metrics service: added
    `API version <envoy_v3_api_field_config.metrics.v3.MetricsServiceConfig.transport_api_version>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to explicitly set the version of gRPC service endpoint
    and message to be used.
-   network filters: added a
    `postgres proxy filter <config_network_filters_postgres_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   network filters: added a
    `rocketmq proxy filter <config_network_filters_rocketmq_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   performance: enabled stats symbol table implementation by default.
    To disable it, add [\--use-fake-symbol-table 1]{.title-ref} to the
    command-line arguments when starting Envoy.
-   ratelimit: added support for use of dynamic metadata
    `dynamic_metadata <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RateLimit.Action.dynamic_metadata>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} as a ratelimit action.
-   ratelimit: added
    `API version <envoy_v3_api_field_config.ratelimit.v3.RateLimitServiceConfig.transport_api_version>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to explicitly set the version of gRPC service endpoint
    and message to be used.
-   ratelimit: support specifying dynamic overrides in rate limit
    descriptors using
    `limit override <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RateLimit.limit>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} config.
-   redis: added acl support
    `downstream_auth_username <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.redis_proxy.v3.RedisProxy.downstream_auth_username>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for downstream client ACL authentication, and
    `auth_username <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.redis_proxy.v3.RedisProtocolOptions.auth_username>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to configure authentication usernames for upstream Redis
    6+ server clusters with ACL enabled.
-   regex: added support for enforcing max program size via runtime and
    stats to monitor program size for
    `Google RE2 <envoy_v3_api_field_type.matcher.v3.RegexMatcher.GoogleRE2.max_program_size>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   request_id: added to
    `always_set_request_id_in_response setting <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.always_set_request_id_in_response>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to set
    `x-request-id <config_http_conn_man_headers_x-request-id>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header in response even if tracing is not forced.
-   router: added more fine grained internal redirect configs to the
    `internal_redirect_policy
    <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.internal_redirect_policy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field.
-   router: added regex substitution support for header based hashing.
-   router: added support for RESPONSE_FLAGS and RESPONSE_CODE_DETAILS
    `header formatters
    <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: allow Rate Limiting Service to be called in case of missing
    request header for a descriptor if the
    `skip_if_absent <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RateLimit.Action.RequestHeaders.skip_if_absent>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field is set to true.
-   runtime: added new gauge
    `deprecated_feature_seen_since_process_start <runtime_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that gets reset across hot restarts.
-   server: added the option `--drain-strategy`{.interpreted-text
    role="option"} to enable different drain strategies for
    DrainManager::drainClose().
-   server: added
    `server.envoy_bug_failures <server_statistics>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} statistic to count ENVOY_BUG failures.
-   stats: added the option to
    `report counters as deltas <envoy_v3_api_field_config.metrics.v3.MetricsServiceConfig.report_counters_as_deltas>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to the metrics service stats sink.
-   tracing: made tracing configuration fully dynamic and every HTTP
    connection manager can now have a separate
    `tracing provider <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.Tracing.provider>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   udp: upgraded
    `udp_proxy <config_udp_listener_filters_udp_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} filter to v3 and promoted it out of alpha.

Deprecated
----------

-   Tracing provider configuration as part of
    `bootstrap config <envoy_v3_api_field_config.bootstrap.v3.Bootstrap.tracing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of configuration as part of
    `HTTP connection manager
    <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.Tracing.provider>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   The `HTTP Gzip filter <config_http_filters_gzip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of
    `Compressor <config_http_filters_compressor>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   The \*
    `GoogleRE2.max_program_size<envoy_v3_api_field_type.matcher.v3.RegexMatcher.GoogleRE2.max_program_size>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field is now deprecated. Management servers are expected
    to validate regexp program sizes instead of expecting the client to
    do it. Alternatively, the max program size can be enforced by Envoy
    via runtime.
-   The
    `internal_redirect_action <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.internal_redirect_action>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field and
    `max_internal_redirects <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.RouteAction.max_internal_redirects>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field are now deprecated. This changes the implemented
    default cross scheme redirect behavior. All cross scheme redirects
    are disallowed by default. To restore the previous behavior, set
    allow_cross_scheme_redirect=true and use
    `safe_cross_scheme<envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.internal_redirect.safe_cross_scheme.v3.SafeCrossSchemeConfig>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, in
    `predicates <envoy_v3_api_field_config.route.v3.InternalRedirectPolicy.predicates>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   File access logger fields
    `format <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.access_loggers.file.v3.FileAccessLog.format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"},
    `json_format <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.access_loggers.file.v3.FileAccessLog.json_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `typed_json_format <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.access_loggers.file.v3.FileAccessLog.typed_json_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} are deprecated in favor of
    `log_format <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.access_loggers.file.v3.FileAccessLog.log_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   A warning is now logged when v2 xDS api is used. This behavior can
    be temporarily disabled by setting
    [envoy.reloadable_features.enable_deprecated_v2_api_warning]{.title-ref}
    to [false]{.title-ref}.
-   Using cluster circuit breakers for DNS Cache is now deprecated in
    favor of
    `DNS cache circuit breakers <dns_cache_circuit_breakers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. This behavior can be temporarily disabled by setting
    [envoy.reloadable_features.enable_dns_cache_circuit_breakers]{.title-ref}
    to [false]{.title-ref}.
