1.11.0 (July 11, 2019)
======================

Changes
-------

-   access log: added a new field for downstream TLS session ID to file
    and gRPC access logger.
-   access log: added a new field for route name to file and gRPC access
    logger.
-   access log: added a new field for response code details in
    `file access logger<config_access_log_format_response_code_details>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `gRPC access logger<envoy_api_field_data.accesslog.v2.HTTPResponseProperties.response_code_details>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access log: added several new variables for exposing information
    about the downstream TLS connection to
    `file access logger<config_access_log_format_response_code_details>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `gRPC access logger<envoy_api_field_data.accesslog.v2.AccessLogCommon.tls_properties>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access log: added a new flag for request rejected due to failed
    strict header check.
-   admin: the administration interface now includes a
    `/ready endpoint <operations_admin_interface>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for easier readiness checks.
-   admin: extend
    `/runtime_modify endpoint <operations_admin_interface_runtime_modify>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to support parameters within the request body.
-   admin: the
    `/listener endpoint <operations_admin_interface_listeners>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} now returns
    `listeners.proto<envoy_api_msg_admin.v2alpha.Listeners>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} which includes listener names and ports.
-   admin: added host priority to :<http:get>:[/clusters]{.title-ref}
    and :<http:get>:[/clusters?format=json]{.title-ref} endpoint
    response
-   admin: the
    `/clusters endpoint <operations_admin_interface_clusters>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} now shows hostname for each host, useful for DNS based
    clusters.
-   api: track and report requests issued since last load report.
-   build: releases are built with Clang and linked with LLD.
-   config: added :ref:stats_server_version_override\`
    \<envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Bootstrap.stats_server_version_override\>[
    in bootstrap, that can be used to override :ref:\`server.version
    statistic \<server_statistics\>]{.title-ref}.
-   control-plane: management servers can respond with HTTP 304 to
    indicate that config is up to date for Envoy proxies polling a
    `REST API Config Type <envoy_api_field_core.ApiConfigSource.api_type>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}
-   csrf: added support for allowlisting additional source origins.
-   dns: added support for getting DNS record TTL which is used by
    STRICT_DNS/LOGICAL_DNS cluster as DNS refresh rate.
-   dubbo_proxy: support the
    `dubbo proxy filter <config_network_filters_dubbo_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   dynamo_request_parser: adding support for transactions. Adds check
    for new types of dynamodb operations (TransactWriteItems,
    TransactGetItems) and awareness for new types of dynamodb errors
    (IdempotentParameterMismatchException, TransactionCanceledException,
    TransactionInProgressException).
-   eds: added support to specify max time for which endpoints can be
    used
    `gRPC filter <envoy_api_msg_ClusterLoadAssignment.Policy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   eds: removed max limit for [load_balancing_weight]{.title-ref}.
-   event: added
    `loop duration and poll delay statistics <operations_performance>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   ext_authz: added a [x-envoy-auth-partial-body]{.title-ref} metadata
    header set to [false\|true]{.title-ref} indicating if there is a
    partial body sent in the authorization request message.
-   ext_authz: added configurable status code that allows customizing
    HTTP responses on filter check status errors.
-   ext_authz: added option to [ext_authz]{.title-ref} that allows the
    filter clearing route cache.
-   grpc-json: added support for `auto mapping
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.transcoder.v2.GrpcJsonTranscoder.auto_mapping>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health check: added
    `initial jitter <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.initial_jitter>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to add jitter to the first health check in order to
    prevent thundering herd on Envoy startup.
-   hot restart: stats are no longer shared between hot restart
    parent/child via shared memory, but rather by RPC. Hot restart
    version incremented to 11.
-   http: added the ability to pass a URL encoded PEM encoded peer
    certificate chain in the
    `config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header.
-   http: fixed a bug where large unbufferable responses were not
    tracked in stats and logs correctly.
-   http: fixed a crashing bug where gRPC local replies would cause
    segfaults when upstream access logging was on.
-   http: mitigated a race condition with the
    `delayed_close_timeout<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.delayed_close_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} where it could trigger while actively flushing a pending
    write buffer for a downstream connection.
-   http: added support for
    `preserve_external_request_id<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.preserve_external_request_id>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that represents whether the x-request-id should not be
    reset on edge entry inside mesh
-   http: changed [sendLocalReply]{.title-ref} to send percent-encoded
    [GrpcMessage]{.title-ref}.
-   http: added a :ref:header_prefix\`
    \<envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Bootstrap.header_prefix\>\`
    configuration option to allow Envoy to send and process x-custom-
    prefixed headers rather than x-envoy.
-   http: added
    `dynamic forward proxy <arch_overview_http_dynamic_forward_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} support.
-   http: tracking the active stream and dumping state in Envoy crash
    handlers. This can be disabled by building with [\--define
    disable_object_dump_on_signal_trace=disabled]{.title-ref}
-   jwt_authn: make filter\'s parsing of JWT more flexible, allowing
    syntax like `jwt=eyJhbGciOiJS...ZFnFIw,extra=7,realm=123`
-   listener: added
    `source IP <envoy_api_field_listener.FilterChainMatch.source_prefix_ranges>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `source port <envoy_api_field_listener.FilterChainMatch.source_ports>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} filter chain matching.
-   lua: exposed functions to Lua to verify digital signature.
-   original_src filter: added the
    `filter<config_http_filters_original_src>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   outlier_detector: added configuration
    `outlier_detection.split_external_local_origin_errors<envoy_api_field_cluster.OutlierDetection.split_external_local_origin_errors>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to distinguish locally and externally generated errors.
    See `arch_overview_outlier_detection`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    for full details.
-   rbac: migrated from v2alpha to v2.
-   redis: add support for Redis cluster custom cluster type.
-   redis: automatically route commands using cluster slots for Redis
    cluster.
-   redis: added
    `prefix routing <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.prefix_routes>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to enable routing commands based on their key\'s prefix
    to different upstream.
-   redis: added
    `request mirror policy <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.PrefixRoutes.Route.request_mirror_policy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to enable shadow traffic and/or dual writes.
-   redis: add support for zpopmax and zpopmin commands.
-   redis: added
    `max_buffer_size_before_flush <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.ConnPoolSettings.max_buffer_size_before_flush>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to batch commands together until the encoder buffer hits
    a certain size, and
    `buffer_flush_timeout <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.ConnPoolSettings.buffer_flush_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to control how quickly the buffer is flushed if it is
    not full.
-   redis: added auth support
    `downstream_auth_password <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.downstream_auth_password>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for downstream client authentication, and
    `auth_password <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProtocolOptions.auth_password>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to configure authentication passwords for upstream
    server clusters.
-   retry: added a retry predicate that
    `rejects canary hosts. <envoy_api_field_route.RetryPolicy.retry_host_predicate>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}
-   router: add support for configuring a
    `gRPC timeout offset <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.grpc_timeout_offset>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} on incoming requests.
-   router: added ability to control retry back-off intervals via
    `retry policy <envoy_api_msg_route.RetryPolicy.RetryBackOff>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added ability to issue a hedged retry in response to a per
    try timeout via a
    `hedge policy <envoy_api_msg_route.HedgePolicy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added a route name field to each http route in route.Route
    list
-   router: added several new variables for exposing information about
    the downstream TLS connection via `header
    formatters <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: per try timeouts will no longer start before the downstream
    request has been received in full by the router.This ensures that
    the per try timeout does not account for slow downstreams and that
    will not start before the global timeout.
-   router: added
    `RouteAction's auto_host_rewrite_header <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.auto_host_rewrite_header>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to allow upstream host header substitution with some
    other header\'s value
-   router: added support for UPSTREAM_REMOTE_ADDRESS `header formatter
    <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: add ability to reject a request that includes invalid values
    for headers configured in
    `strict_check_headers <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.router.v2.Router.strict_check_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}
-   runtime: added support for `flexible layering configuration
    <envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Bootstrap.layered_runtime>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   runtime: added support for statically
    `specifying the runtime in the bootstrap configuration
    <envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Runtime.base>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   runtime:
    `Runtime Discovery Service (RTDS) <config_runtime_rtds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} support added to layered runtime configuration.
-   sandbox: added
    `CSRF sandbox <install_sandboxes_csrf>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   server: `--define manual_stamp=manual_stamp` was added to allow
    server stamping outside of binary rules. more info in the [bazel
    docs](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/bazel/README.md#enabling-optional-features).
-   server: added `server state <statistics>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} statistic.
-   server: added `initialization_time_ms<statistics>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} statistic.
-   subset: added
    `list_as_any<envoy_api_field_Cluster.LbSubsetConfig.list_as_any>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} option to the subset lb which allows matching metadata
    against any of the values in a list value on the endpoints.
-   tools: added
    `proto <test/tools/router_check/validation.proto>`{.interpreted-text
    role="repo"} support for
    `router check tool <install_tools_route_table_check_tool>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} tests.
-   tracing: add trace sampling configuration to the route, to override
    the route level.
-   upstream: added
    `upstream_cx_pool_overflow <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for the connection pool circuit breaker.
-   upstream: an EDS management server can now force removal of a host
    that is still passing active health checking by first marking the
    host as failed via EDS health check and subsequently removing it in
    a future update. This is a mechanism to work around a race condition
    in which an EDS implementation may remove a host before it has
    stopped passing active HC, thus causing the host to become stranded
    until a future update.
-   upstream: added
    `an option <envoy_api_field_Cluster.CommonLbConfig.ignore_new_hosts_until_first_hc>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that allows ignoring new hosts for the purpose of load
    balancing calculations until they have been health checked for the
    first time.
-   upstream: added runtime error checking to prevent setting dns type
    to STRICT_DNS or LOGICAL_DNS when custom resolver name is specified.
-   upstream: added possibility to override fallback_policy per specific
    selector in
    `subset load balancer <arch_overview_load_balancer_subsets>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   upstream: the
    `logical DNS cluster <arch_overview_service_discovery_types_logical_dns>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} now displays the current resolved IP address in admin
    output instead of 0.0.0.0.

Deprecated
----------

-   The \--max-stats and \--max-obj-name-len flags no longer has any
    effect.
-   Use of
    `cluster <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.cluster>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in
    `redis_proxy.proto <envoy_api_file_envoy/config/filter/network/redis_proxy/v2/redis_proxy.proto>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is deprecated. Set a
    `catch_all_route <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.PrefixRoutes.catch_all_route>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} instead.
-   Use of
    `catch_all_cluster <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.PrefixRoutes.catch_all_cluster>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in
    `redis_proxy.proto <envoy_api_file_envoy/config/filter/network/redis_proxy/v2/redis_proxy.proto>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is deprecated. Set a
    `catch_all_route <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.PrefixRoutes.catch_all_route>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} instead.
-   Use of json based schema in router check tool tests. The tests
    should follow validation
    `schema<test/tools/router_check/validation.proto>`{.interpreted-text
    role="repo"}.
-   Use of the v1 style route configuration for the
    `TCP proxy filter <config_network_filters_tcp_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is now fully replaced with listener
    `filter chain matching <envoy_api_msg_listener.FilterChainMatch>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. Use this instead.
-   Use of
    `runtime <envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Bootstrap.runtime>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in `Bootstrap
    <envoy_api_msg_config.bootstrap.v2.Bootstrap>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. Use `layered_runtime
    <envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Bootstrap.layered_runtime>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} instead.
-   Specifying \"deprecated_v1: true\" in HTTP and network filter
    configuration to allow loading JSON configuration is now deprecated
    and will be removed in a following release. Update any custom
    filters to use protobuf configuration. A struct can be used for a
    mostly 1:1 conversion if needed. The
    [envoy.deprecated_features.v1_filter_json_config]{.title-ref}
    runtime key can be used to temporarily enable this feature once the
    deprecation becomes fail by default.
