1.3.0 (May 17, 2017)
====================

Changes
-------

-   As of this release, we now have an official `breaking change policy
    </CONTRIBUTING.md#breaking-change-policy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="repo"}. Note that there are numerous breaking configuration
    changes in this release. They are not listed here. Future releases
    will adhere to the policy and have clear documentation on
    deprecations and changes.
-   Bazel is now the canonical build system (replacing CMake). There
    have been a huge number of changes to the development/build/test
    flow. See `/bazel/README.md`{.interpreted-text role="repo"} and
    `/ci/README.md`{.interpreted-text role="repo"} for more information.
-   `Outlier detection <arch_overview_outlier_detection>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been expanded to include success rate variance, and
    all parameters are now configurable in both runtime and in the JSON
    configuration.
-   TCP level listener and cluster connections now have configurable
    receive buffer limits at which point connection level back pressure
    is applied. Full end to end flow control will be available in a
    future release.
-   `Redis health checking <config_cluster_manager_cluster_hc>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been added as an active health check type. Full
    Redis support will be documented/supported in 1.4.0.
-   `TCP health checking <config_cluster_manager_cluster_hc_tcp_health_checking>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} now supports a \"connect only\" mode that only checks if
    the remote server can be connected to without writing/reading any
    data.
-   [BoringSSL](https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl) is now the
    only supported TLS provider. The default cipher suites and ECDH
    curves have been updated with more modern defaults for both listener
    and cluster connections.
-   The [header value match]{.title-ref} rate limit action has been
    expanded to include an [expect match]{.title-ref} parameter.
-   Route level HTTP rate limit configurations now do not inherit the
    virtual host level configurations by default. Use
    [include_vh_rate_limits]{.title-ref} to inherit the virtual host
    level options if desired.
-   HTTP routes can now add request headers on a per route and per
    virtual host basis via the
    `request_headers_to_add <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} option.
-   The `example configurations <install_ref_configs>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} have been refreshed to demonstrate the latest features.
-   [per_try_timeout_ms]{.title-ref} can now be configured in a route\'s
    retry policy in addition to via the
    `x-envoy-upstream-rq-per-try-timeout-ms
    <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-upstream-rq-per-try-timeout-ms>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} HTTP header.
-   HTTP virtual host matching now includes support for prefix wildcard
    domains (e.g., [\*.lyft.com]{.title-ref}).
-   The default for tracing random sampling has been changed to 100% and
    is still configurable in
    `runtime <config_http_conn_man_runtime>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   HTTP tracing configuration has been extended to allow tags to be
    populated from arbitrary HTTP headers.
-   The
    `HTTP rate limit filter <config_http_filters_rate_limit>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} can now be applied to internal, external, or all
    requests via the [request_type]{.title-ref} option.
-   `Listener binding <config_listeners>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    now requires specifying an [address]{.title-ref} field. This can be
    used to bind a listener to both a specific address as well as a
    port.
-   The
    `MongoDB filter <config_network_filters_mongo_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} now emits a stat for queries that do not have
    [\$maxTimeMS]{.title-ref} set.
-   The
    `MongoDB filter <config_network_filters_mongo_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} now emits logs that are fully valid JSON.
-   The CPU profiler output path is now configurable.
-   A watchdog system has been added that can kill the server if a
    deadlock is detected.
-   A
    `route table checking tool <install_tools_route_table_check_tool>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been added that can be used to test route tables
    before use.
-   We have added an `example repo <extending>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that shows how to compile/link a custom filter.
-   Added additional cluster wide information related to outlier
    detection to the `/clusters
    admin endpoint <operations_admin_interface>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   Multiple SANs can now be verified via the
    [verify_subject_alt_name]{.title-ref} setting. Additionally, URI
    type SANs can be verified.
-   HTTP filters can now be passed opaque configuration specified on a
    per route basis.
-   By default Envoy now has a built in crash handler that will print a
    back trace. This behavior can be disabled if desired via the
    `--define=signal_trace=disabled` Bazel option.
-   Zipkin has been added as a supported
    `tracing provider <arch_overview_tracing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   Numerous small changes and fixes not listed here.
