1.8.0 (Oct 4, 2018)
===================

Changes
-------

-   access log: added
    `response flag filter <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.accesslog.v2.ResponseFlagFilter>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to filter based on the presence of Envoy response flags.
-   access log: added RESPONSE_DURATION and RESPONSE_TX_DURATION.
-   access log: added REQUESTED_SERVER_NAME for SNI to tcp_proxy and
    http
-   admin: added :<http:get>:[/hystrix_event_stream]{.title-ref} as an
    endpoint for monitoring envoy\'s statistics through [Hystrix
    dashboard](https://github.com/Netflix-Skunkworks/hystrix-dashboard/wiki).
-   cli: added support for
    `component log level <operations_cli>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    command line option for configuring log levels of individual
    components.
-   cluster: added
    `option <envoy_api_field_Cluster.CommonLbConfig.update_merge_window>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to merge health check/weight/metadata updates within the
    given duration.
-   config: regex validation added to limit to a maximum of 1024
    characters.
-   config: v1 disabled by default. v1 support remains available until
    October via flipping \--v2-config-only=false.
-   config: v1 disabled by default. v1 support remains available until
    October via deprecated flag \--allow-deprecated-v1-api.
-   config: fixed stat inconsistency between xDS and ADS implementation.
    `update_failure <config_cluster_manager_cds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} stat is incremented in case of network failure and
    `update_rejected <config_cluster_manager_cds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} stat is incremented in case of schema/validation error.
-   config: added a stat
    `connected_state <management_server_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that indicates current connected state of Envoy with
    management server.
-   ext_authz: added support for configuring additional
    `authorization headers <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.AuthorizationRequest.headers_to_add>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to be sent from Envoy to the authorization service.
-   fault: added support for fractional percentages in
    `FaultDelay <envoy_api_field_config.filter.fault.v2.FaultDelay.percentage>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and in
    `FaultAbort <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.fault.v2.FaultAbort.percentage>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   grpc-json: added support for building HTTP response from
    [google.api.HttpBody](https://github.com/googleapis/googleapis/blob/master/google/api/httpbody.proto).
-   health check: added support for
    `custom health check <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.custom_health_check>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health check: added support for
    `specifying jitter as a percentage <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.interval_jitter_percent>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health_check: added support for
    `health check event logging <arch_overview_health_check_logging>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health_check: added
    `timestamp <envoy_api_field_data.core.v2alpha.HealthCheckEvent.timestamp>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to the
    `health check event <envoy_api_msg_data.core.v2alpha.HealthCheckEvent>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} definition.
-   health_check: added support for specifying
    `custom request headers <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to HTTP health checker requests.
-   http: added support for a `per-stream idle timeout
    <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.idle_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. This applies at both `connection manager
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.stream_idle_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `per-route granularity <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.idle_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. The timeout defaults to 5 minutes; if you have other
    timeouts (e.g. connection idle timeout, upstream response per-retry)
    that are longer than this in duration, you may want to consider
    setting a non-default per-stream idle timeout.
-   http: added upstream_rq_completed counter for
    `total requests completed <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats_dynamic_http>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to dynamic HTTP counters.
-   http: added downstream_rq_completed counter for
    `total requests completed <config_http_conn_man_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, including on a
    `per-listener basis <config_http_conn_man_stats_per_listener>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: added generic `Upgrade support
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.upgrade_configs>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: better handling of HEAD requests. Now sending
    transfer-encoding: chunked rather than content-length: 0.
-   http: fixed missing support for appending to predefined inline
    headers, e.g. *authorization*, in features that interact with
    request and response headers, e.g. `request_headers_to_add
    <envoy_api_field_route.Route.request_headers_to_add>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. For example, a request header *authorization: token1*
    will appear as *authorization: token1,token2*, after having
    `request_headers_to_add
    <envoy_api_field_route.Route.request_headers_to_add>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} with *authorization: token2* applied.
-   http: response filters not applied to early error paths such as
    http_parser generated 400s.
-   http: restrictions added to reject *:*-prefixed pseudo-headers in
    `custom
    request headers <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http:
    `hpack_table_size <envoy_api_field_core.Http2ProtocolOptions.hpack_table_size>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} now controls dynamic table size of both: encoder and
    decoder.
-   http: added support for removing request headers using
    `request_headers_to_remove
    <envoy_api_field_route.Route.request_headers_to_remove>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: added support for a
    `delayed close timeout<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.delayed_close_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to mitigate race conditions when closing connections to
    downstream HTTP clients. The timeout defaults to 1 second.
-   jwt-authn filter: add support for per route JWT requirements.
-   listeners: added the ability to match
    `FilterChain <envoy_api_msg_listener.FilterChain>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} using
    `destination_port <envoy_api_field_listener.FilterChainMatch.destination_port>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `prefix_ranges <envoy_api_field_listener.FilterChainMatch.prefix_ranges>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   lua: added
    `connection() <config_http_filters_lua_connection_wrapper>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} wrapper and *ssl()* API.
-   lua: added
    `streamInfo() <config_http_filters_lua_stream_info_wrapper>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} wrapper and *protocol()* API.
-   lua: added
    `streamInfo():dynamicMetadata() <config_http_filters_lua_stream_info_dynamic_metadata_wrapper>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} API.
-   network: introduced
    `sni_cluster <config_network_filters_sni_cluster>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} network filter that forwards connections to the upstream
    cluster specified by the SNI value presented by the client during a
    TLS handshake.
-   proxy_protocol: added support for HAProxy Proxy Protocol v2
    (AF_INET/AF_INET6 only).
-   ratelimit: added support for
    `api/envoy/service/ratelimit/v2/rls.proto`{.interpreted-text
    role="repo"}. Lyft\'s reference implementation of the
    [ratelimit](https://github.com/lyft/ratelimit) service also supports
    the data-plane-api proto as of v1.1.0. Envoy can use either proto to
    send client requests to a ratelimit server with the use of the
    [use_data_plane_proto]{.title-ref} boolean flag in the ratelimit
    configuration. Support for the legacy proto
    [source/common/ratelimit/ratelimit.proto]{.title-ref} is deprecated
    and will be removed at the start of the 1.9.0 release cycle.
-   ratelimit: added
    `failure_mode_deny <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.http.rate_limit.v2.RateLimit>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} option to control traffic flow in case of rate limit
    service error.
-   rbac config: added a
    `principal_name <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.Authenticated.principal_name>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field and removed the old [name]{.title-ref} field to
    give more flexibility for matching certificate identity.
-   rbac network filter: a
    `role-based access control network filter <config_network_filters_rbac>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been added.
-   rest-api: added ability to set the
    `request timeout <envoy_api_field_core.ApiConfigSource.request_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for REST API requests.
-   route checker: added v2 config support and removed support for v1
    configs.
-   router: added ability to set request/response headers at the
    `envoy_api_msg_route.Route`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} level.
-   stats: added
    `option to configure the DogStatsD metric name prefix<envoy_api_field_config.metrics.v2.DogStatsdSink.prefix>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to DogStatsdSink.
-   tcp_proxy: added support for
    `weighted clusters <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.tcp_proxy.v2.TcpProxy.weighted_clusters>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   thrift_proxy: introduced thrift routing, moved configuration to
    correct location
-   thrift_proxy: introduced thrift configurable decoder filters
-   tls: implemented
    `Secret Discovery Service <config_secret_discovery_service>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tracing: added support for configuration of `tracing sampling
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.tracing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   upstream: added configuration option to the subset load balancer to
    take locality weights into account when selecting a host from a
    subset.
-   upstream: require opt-in to use the
    `x-envoy-original-dst-host <config_http_conn_man_headers_x-envoy-original-dst-host>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header for overriding destination address when using the
    `Original Destination <arch_overview_load_balancing_types_original_destination>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} load balancing policy.

Deprecated
----------

-   Use of the v1 API (including [\*.deprecated_v1]{.title-ref} fields
    in the v2 API) is deprecated. See envoy-announce
    [email](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/envoy-announce/oPnYMZw8H4U).
-   Use of the legacy
    [ratelimit.proto](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/b0a518d064c8255e0e20557a8f909b6ff457558f/source/common/ratelimit/ratelimit.proto)
    is deprecated, in favor of the proto defined in
    [date-plane-api](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/service/ratelimit/v2/rls.proto)
    Prior to 1.8.0, Envoy can use either proto to send client requests
    to a ratelimit server with the use of the
    [use_data_plane_proto]{.title-ref} boolean flag in the [ratelimit
    configuration](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/ratelimit/v2/rls.proto).
    However, when using the deprecated client a warning is logged.
-   Use of the \--v2-config-only flag.
-   Use of both [use_websocket]{.title-ref} and
    [websocket_config]{.title-ref} in
    [route.proto](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/api/v2/route/route.proto)
    is deprecated. Please use the new [upgrade_configs]{.title-ref} in
    the
    [HttpConnectionManager](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/filter/network/http_connection_manager/v2/http_connection_manager.proto)
    instead.
-   Use of the integer [percent]{.title-ref} field in
    [FaultDelay](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/filter/fault/v2/fault.proto)
    and in
    [FaultAbort](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/filter/http/fault/v2/fault.proto)
    is deprecated in favor of the new [FractionalPercent]{.title-ref}
    based [percentage]{.title-ref} field.
-   Setting hosts via [hosts]{.title-ref} field in [Cluster]{.title-ref}
    is deprecated. Use [load_assignment]{.title-ref} instead.
-   Use of [response_headers_to\_\*]{.title-ref} and
    [request_headers_to_add]{.title-ref} are deprecated at the
    [RouteAction]{.title-ref} level. Please use the configuration
    options at the [Route]{.title-ref} level.
-   Use of [runtime]{.title-ref} in [RouteMatch]{.title-ref}, found in
    [route.proto](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/api/v2/route/route.proto).
    Set the [runtime_fraction]{.title-ref} field instead.
-   Use of the string [user]{.title-ref} field in
    [Authenticated]{.title-ref} in
    [rbac.proto](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/rbac/v2alpha/rbac.proto)
    is deprecated in favor of the new [StringMatcher]{.title-ref} based
    [principal_name]{.title-ref} field.
