1.9.0 (Dec 20, 2018)
====================

Changes
-------

-   access log: added a
    `JSON logging mode <config_access_log_format_dictionaries>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to output access logs in JSON format.
-   access log: added dynamic metadata to access log messages streamed
    over gRPC.
-   access log: added DOWNSTREAM_CONNECTION_TERMINATION.
-   admin: :<http:post>:[/logging]{.title-ref} now responds with 200
    while there are no params.
-   admin: added support for displaying subject alternate names in
    `certs<operations_admin_interface_certs>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} end point.
-   admin: added host weight to the
    :<http:get>:[/clusters?format=json]{.title-ref} end point response.
-   admin: :<http:get>:[/server_info]{.title-ref} now responds with a
    JSON object instead of a single string.
-   admin: :<http:get>:[/server_info]{.title-ref} now exposes what stage
    of initialization the server is currently in.
-   admin: added support for displaying command line options in
    :<http:get>:[/server_info]{.title-ref} end point.
-   circuit-breaker: added cx_open, rq_pending_open, rq_open and
    rq_retry_open gauges to expose live state via
    `circuit breakers statistics <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats_circuit_breakers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   cluster: set a default of 1s for
    `option <envoy_api_field_Cluster.CommonLbConfig.update_merge_window>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   config: removed support for the v1 API.
-   config: added support for
    `rate limiting<envoy_api_msg_core.RateLimitSettings>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} discovery request calls.
-   cors: added
    `invalid/valid stats <cors-statistics>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to filter.
-   ext-authz: added support for providing per route config - optionally
    disable the filter and provide context extensions.
-   fault: removed integer percentage support.
-   grpc-json: added support for `ignoring query parameters
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.transcoder.v2.GrpcJsonTranscoder.ignored_query_parameters>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health check: added
    `logging health check failure events <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.always_log_health_check_failures>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health check: added ability to set `authority header value
    <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.GrpcHealthCheck.authority>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for gRPC health check.
-   http: added HTTP/2 WebSocket proxying via
    `extended CONNECT <envoy_api_field_core.Http2ProtocolOptions.allow_connect>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: added limits to the number and length of header modifications
    in all fields request_headers_to_add and response_headers_to_add.
    These limits are very high and should only be used as a last-resort
    safeguard.
-   http: added support for a
    `request timeout <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.request_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. The timeout is disabled by default.
-   http: no longer adding whitespace when appending X-Forwarded-For
    headers. **Warning**: this is not compatible with 1.7.0 builds prior
    to
    [9d3a4eb4ac44be9f0651fcc7f87ad98c538b01ee](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/pull/3610).
    See [\#3611](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/3611) for
    details.
-   http: augmented the [sendLocalReply]{.title-ref} filter API to
    accept an optional [GrpcStatus]{.title-ref} value to override the
    default HTTP to gRPC status mapping.
-   http: no longer close the TCP connection when a HTTP/1 request is
    retried due to a response with empty body.
-   http: added support for more gRPC content-type headers in
    `gRPC bridge filter <config_http_filters_grpc_bridge>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, like application/grpc+proto.
-   listeners: all listener filters are now governed by the
    `listener_filters_timeout
    <envoy_api_field_Listener.listener_filters_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} setting. The hard coded 15s timeout in the
    `TLS inspector listener filter <config_listener_filters_tls_inspector>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is superseded by this setting.
-   listeners: added the ability to match
    `FilterChain <envoy_api_msg_listener.FilterChain>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} using
    `source_type <envoy_api_field_listener.FilterChainMatch.source_type>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   load balancer: added a [configuration
    \<envoy_api_msg_Cluster.LeastRequestLbConfig\>]{.title-ref} option
    to specify the number of choices made in P2C.
-   logging: added missing \[ in log prefix.
-   mongo_proxy: added
    `dynamic metadata <config_network_filters_mongo_proxy_dynamic_metadata>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   network: removed the reference to [FilterState]{.title-ref} in
    [Connection]{.title-ref} in favor of [StreamInfo]{.title-ref}.
-   rate-limit: added
    `configuration <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.rate_limit.v2.RateLimit.rate_limited_as_resource_exhausted>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to specify whether the [GrpcStatus]{.title-ref} status
    returned should be [RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED]{.title-ref} or
    [UNAVAILABLE]{.title-ref} when a gRPC call is rate limited.
-   rate-limit: removed support for the legacy ratelimit service and
    made the data-plane-api
    `rls.proto <envoy_api_file_envoy/service/ratelimit/v2/rls.proto>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} based implementation default.
-   rate-limit: removed the deprecated cluster_name attribute in
    `rate limit service configuration <envoy_api_file_envoy/config/ratelimit/v2/rls.proto>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   rate-limit: added
    `rate_limit_service <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.http.rate_limit.v2.RateLimit>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} configuration to filters.
-   rbac: added dynamic metadata to the network level filter.
-   rbac: added support for permission matching by
    `requested server name <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Permission.requested_server_name>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   redis: static cluster configuration is no longer required. Redis
    proxy will work with clusters delivered via CDS.
-   router: added ability to configure arbitrary
    `retriable status codes. <envoy_api_field_route.RetryPolicy.retriable_status_codes>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}
-   router: added ability to set attempt count in upstream requests, see
    `virtual host's include request
    attempt count flag <envoy_api_field_route.VirtualHost.include_request_attempt_count>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added internal
    `grpc-retry-on <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-retry-grpc-on>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} policy.
-   router: added
    `scheme_redirect <envoy_api_field_route.RedirectAction.scheme_redirect>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `port_redirect <envoy_api_field_route.RedirectAction.port_redirect>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to define the respective scheme and port rewriting
    RedirectAction.
-   router: when
    `max_grpc_timeout <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.max_grpc_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is set, Envoy will now add or update the grpc-timeout
    header to reflect Envoy\'s expected timeout.
-   router: per try timeouts now starts when an upstream stream is ready
    instead of when the request has been fully decoded by Envoy.
-   router: added support for not retrying
    `rate limited requests<config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-ratelimited>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. Rate limit filter now sets the
    `x-envoy-ratelimited<config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-ratelimited>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header so the rate limited requests that may have been
    retried earlier will not be retried with this change.
-   router: added support for enabling upgrades on a
    `per-route <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.upgrade_configs>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} basis.
-   router: support configuring a default fraction of mirror traffic via
    `runtime_fraction <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.RequestMirrorPolicy.runtime_key>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   sandbox: added
    `cors sandbox <install_sandboxes_cors>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   server: added [SIGINT]{.title-ref} (Ctrl-C) handler to gracefully
    shutdown Envoy like [SIGTERM]{.title-ref}.
-   stats: added
    `stats_matcher <envoy_api_field_config.metrics.v2.StatsConfig.stats_matcher>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to the bootstrap config for granular control of stat
    instantiation.
-   stream: renamed the [RequestInfo]{.title-ref} namespace to
    [StreamInfo]{.title-ref} to better match its behaviour within TCP
    and HTTP implementations.
-   stream: renamed [perRequestState]{.title-ref} to
    [filterState]{.title-ref} in [StreamInfo]{.title-ref}.
-   stream: added [downstreamDirectRemoteAddress]{.title-ref} to
    [StreamInfo]{.title-ref}.
-   thrift_proxy: introduced thrift rate limiter filter.
-   tls: added ssl.curves.\<curve\>, ssl.sigalgs.\<sigalg\> and
    ssl.versions.\<version\> to
    `listener metrics <config_listener_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to track TLS algorithms and versions in use.
-   tls: added support for
    `client-side session resumption <envoy_api_field_auth.UpstreamTlsContext.max_session_keys>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tls: added support for CRLs in
    `trusted_ca <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.trusted_ca>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tls: added support for
    `multiple server TLS certificates <arch_overview_ssl_cert_select>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tls: added support for
    `password encrypted private keys <envoy_api_field_auth.TlsCertificate.password>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tls: added the ability to build
    `BoringSSL FIPS <arch_overview_ssl_fips>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} using `--define boringssl=fips` Bazel option.
-   tls: removed support for ECDSA certificates with curves other than
    P-256.
-   tls: removed support for RSA certificates with keys smaller than
    2048-bits.
-   tracing: added support to the Zipkin tracer for the
    `b3 <config_http_conn_man_headers_b3>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    single header format.
-   tracing: added support for
    `Datadog <arch_overview_tracing>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    tracer.
-   upstream: added
    `scale_locality_weight<envoy_api_field_Cluster.LbSubsetConfig.scale_locality_weight>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to enable scaling locality weights by number of hosts
    removed by subset lb predicates.
-   upstream: changed how load calculation for
    `priority levels<arch_overview_load_balancing_priority_levels>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `panic thresholds<arch_overview_load_balancing_panic_threshold>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} interact. As long as normalized total health is 100%
    panic thresholds are disregarded.
-   upstream: changed the default hash for
    `ring hash <envoy_api_msg_Cluster.RingHashLbConfig>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} from std::hash to
    [xxHash](https://github.com/Cyan4973/xxHash).
-   upstream: when using active health checking and STRICT_DNS with
    several addresses that resolve to the same hosts, Envoy will now
    health check each host independently.

Deprecated
----------

-   Order of execution of the network write filter chain has been
    reversed. Prior to this release cycle it was incorrect, see
    [\#4599](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/4599). In the
    1.9.0 release cycle we introduced
    [bugfix_reverse_write_filter_order]{.title-ref} in
    [lds.proto](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/api/v2/lds.proto)
    to temporarily support both old and new behaviors. Note this boolean
    field is deprecated.
-   Order of execution of the HTTP encoder filter chain has been
    reversed. Prior to this release cycle it was incorrect, see
    [\#4599](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/4599). In the
    1.9.0 release cycle we introduced
    [bugfix_reverse_encode_order]{.title-ref} in
    [http_connection_manager.proto](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/filter/network/http_connection_manager/v2/http_connection_manager.proto)
    to temporarily support both old and new behaviors. Note this boolean
    field is deprecated.
-   Use of the v1 REST_LEGACY ApiConfigSource is deprecated.
-   Use of std::hash in the ring hash load balancer is deprecated.
-   Use of [rate_limit_service]{.title-ref} configuration in the
    [bootstrap
    configuration](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/bootstrap/v2/bootstrap.proto)
    is deprecated.
-   Use of [runtime_key]{.title-ref} in
    [RequestMirrorPolicy]{.title-ref}, found in
    [route.proto](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/api/v2/route/route.proto)
    is deprecated. Set the [runtime_fraction]{.title-ref} field instead.
-   Use of buffer filter [max_request_time]{.title-ref} is deprecated in
    favor of the request timeout found in
    [HttpConnectionManager](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/api/envoy/config/filter/network/http_connection_manager/v2/http_connection_manager.proto)
