1.12.0 (October 31, 2019)
=========================

Changes
-------

-   access log: added a new flag for
    `downstream protocol error <envoy_api_field_data.accesslog.v2.ResponseFlags.downstream_protocol_error>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access log: added
    `buffering <envoy_api_field_config.accesslog.v2.CommonGrpcAccessLogConfig.buffer_size_bytes>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `periodical flushing <envoy_api_field_config.accesslog.v2.CommonGrpcAccessLogConfig.buffer_flush_interval>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} support to gRPC access logger. Defaults to 16KB buffer
    and flushing every 1 second.
-   access log: added DOWNSTREAM_DIRECT_REMOTE_ADDRESS and
    DOWNSTREAM_DIRECT_REMOTE_ADDRESS_WITHOUT_PORT
    `access log formatters <config_access_log_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and gRPC access logger.
-   access log: gRPC Access Log Service (ALS) support added for
    `TCP access logs <envoy_api_msg_config.accesslog.v2.TcpGrpcAccessLogConfig>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access log: reintroduced
    `filesystem <config_access_log_stats>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    stats and added the [write_failed]{.title-ref} counter to track
    failed log writes.
-   admin: added ability to configure listener
    `socket options <envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.Admin.socket_options>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   admin: added config dump support for Secret Discovery Service
    `SecretConfigDump <envoy_api_msg_admin.v2alpha.SecretsConfigDump>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   admin: added support for
    `draining <operations_admin_interface_drain>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} listeners via admin interface.
-   admin: added :<http:get>:[/stats/recentlookups]{.title-ref},
    :<http:post>:[/stats/recentlookups/clear]{.title-ref},
    :<http:post>:[/stats/recentlookups/disable]{.title-ref}, and
    :<http:post>:[/stats/recentlookups/enable]{.title-ref} endpoints.
-   api: added
    `set_node_on_first_message_only <envoy_api_field_core.ApiConfigSource.set_node_on_first_message_only>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} option to omit the node identifier from the subsequent
    discovery requests on the same stream.
-   buffer filter: now populates content-length header if not present.
    This behavior can be temporarily disabled using the runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.buffer_filter_populate_content_length]{.title-ref}.
-   build: official released binary is now PIE so it can be run with
    ASLR.
-   config: added support for
    `delta xDS <arch_overview_dynamic_config_delta>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} (including ADS) delivery.
-   config: enforcing that terminal filters (e.g. HttpConnectionManager
    for L4, router for L7) be the last in their respective filter
    chains.
-   config: added access log
    `extension filter<envoy_api_field_config.filter.accesslog.v2.AccessLogFilter.extension_filter>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   config: added support for
    `--reject-unknown-dynamic-fields`{.interpreted-text role="option"},
    providing independent control over whether unknown fields are
    rejected in static and dynamic configuration. By default, unknown
    fields in static configuration are rejected and are allowed in
    dynamic configuration. Warnings are logged for the first use of any
    unknown field and these occurrences are counted in the
    `server.static_unknown_fields <server_statistics>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and `server.dynamic_unknown_fields
    <server_statistics>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} statistics.
-   config: added async data access for local and remote data sources.
-   config: changed the default value of
    `initial_fetch_timeout <envoy_api_field_core.ConfigSource.initial_fetch_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} from 0s to 15s. This is a change in behaviour in the
    sense that Envoy will move to the next initialization phase, even if
    the first config is not delivered in 15s. Refer to
    `initialization process <arch_overview_initialization>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for more details.
-   config: added stat
    `init_fetch_timeout <config_cluster_manager_cds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   config: tls_context in Cluster and FilterChain are deprecated in
    favor of transport socket. See
    `deprecated documentation<deprecated>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    for more information.
-   csrf: added PATCH to supported methods.
-   dns: added support for configuring
    `dns_failure_refresh_rate <envoy_api_field_Cluster.dns_failure_refresh_rate>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to set the DNS refresh rate during failures.
-   ext_authz: added
    `configurable ability <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.ExtAuthz.metadata_context_namespaces>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to send dynamic metadata to the [ext_authz]{.title-ref}
    service.
-   ext_authz: added
    `filter_enabled RuntimeFractionalPercent flag <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.ExtAuthz.filter_enabled>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to filter.
-   ext_authz: added tracing to the HTTP client.
-   ext_authz: deprecated
    `cluster scope stats <config_http_filters_ext_authz_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in favour of filter scope stats.
-   fault: added overrides for default runtime keys in
    `HTTPFault <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.http.fault.v2.HTTPFault>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} filter.
-   grpc: added
    `AWS IAM grpc credentials extension <envoy_api_file_envoy/config/grpc_credential/v2alpha/aws_iam.proto>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for AWS-managed xDS.
-   grpc: added
    `gRPC stats filter <config_http_filters_grpc_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for collecting stats about gRPC calls and streaming
    message counts.
-   grpc-json: added support for
    `ignoring unknown query parameters<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.transcoder.v2.GrpcJsonTranscoder.ignore_unknown_query_parameters>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   grpc-json: added support for
    `the grpc-status-details-bin header<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.transcoder.v2.GrpcJsonTranscoder.convert_grpc_status>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   header to metadata: added
    `PROTOBUF_VALUE <envoy_api_enum_value_config.filter.http.header_to_metadata.v2.Config.ValueType.PROTOBUF_VALUE>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `ValueEncode <envoy_api_enum_config.filter.http.header_to_metadata.v2.Config.ValueEncode>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to support protobuf Value and Base64 encoding.
-   http: added a default one hour idle timeout to upstream and
    downstream connections. HTTP connections with no streams and no
    activity will be closed after one hour unless the default
    idle_timeout is overridden. To disable upstream idle timeouts, set
    the
    `idle_timeout <envoy_api_field_core.HttpProtocolOptions.idle_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to zero in Cluster
    `http_protocol_options<envoy_api_field_Cluster.common_http_protocol_options>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. To disable downstream idle timeouts, either set
    `idle_timeout <envoy_api_field_core.HttpProtocolOptions.idle_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to zero in the HttpConnectionManager
    `common_http_protocol_options <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.common_http_protocol_options>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} or set the deprecated
    `connection manager <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.idle_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field to zero.
-   http: added the ability to format HTTP/1.1 header keys using
    `header_key_format <envoy_api_field_core.Http1ProtocolOptions.header_key_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: added the ability to reject HTTP/1.1 requests with invalid
    HTTP header values, using the runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.strict_header_validation]{.title-ref}.
-   http: changed Envoy to forward existing x-forwarded-proto from
    upstream trusted proxies. Guarded by
    [envoy.reloadable_features.trusted_forwarded_proto]{.title-ref}
    which defaults true.
-   http: added the ability to configure the behavior of the server
    response header, via the
    `server_header_transformation<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.server_header_transformation>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field.
-   http: added the ability to
    `merge adjacent slashes<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.merge_slashes>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in the path.
-   http:
    `AUTO <envoy_api_enum_value_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.CodecType.AUTO>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} codec protocol inference now requires the H2 magic bytes
    to be the first bytes transmitted by a downstream client.
-   http: remove h2c upgrade headers for HTTP/1 as h2c upgrades are
    currently not supported.
-   http: absolute URL support is now on by default. The prior behavior
    can be reinstated by setting
    `allow_absolute_url <envoy_api_field_core.Http1ProtocolOptions.allow_absolute_url>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to false.
-   http: support
    `host rewrite <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.http.dynamic_forward_proxy.v2alpha.PerRouteConfig>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in the dynamic forward proxy.
-   http: support
    `disabling the filter per route <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.http.grpc_http1_reverse_bridge.v2alpha1.FilterConfigPerRoute>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in the grpc http1 reverse bridge filter.
-   http: added the ability to
    `configure max connection duration <envoy_api_field_core.HttpProtocolOptions.max_connection_duration>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for downstream connections.
-   listeners: added
    `continue_on_listener_filters_timeout <envoy_api_field_Listener.continue_on_listener_filters_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to configure whether a listener will still create a
    connection when listener filters time out.
-   listeners: added
    `HTTP inspector listener filter <config_listener_filters_http_inspector>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   listeners: added
    `connection balancer <envoy_api_field_Listener.connection_balance_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} configuration for TCP listeners.
-   listeners: listeners now close the listening socket as part of the
    draining stage as soon as workers stop accepting their connections.
-   lua: extended [httpCall()]{.title-ref} and [respond()]{.title-ref}
    APIs to accept headers with entry values that can be a string or
    table of strings.
-   lua: extended [dynamicMetadata:set()]{.title-ref} to allow setting
    complex values.
-   metrics_service: added support for flushing histogram buckets.
-   outlier_detector: added
    `support for the grpc-status response header <arch_overview_outlier_detection_grpc>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} by mapping it to HTTP status. Guarded by
    envoy.reloadable_features.outlier_detection_support_for_grpc_status
    which defaults to true.
-   performance: new buffer implementation enabled by default (to
    disable add \"\--use-libevent-buffers 1\" to the command-line
    arguments when starting Envoy).
-   performance: stats symbol table implementation (disabled by default;
    to test it, add \"\--use-fake-symbol-table 0\" to the command-line
    arguments when starting Envoy).
-   rbac: added support for DNS SAN as
    `principal_name <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.Authenticated.principal_name>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   redis: added
    `enable_command_stats <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.ConnPoolSettings.enable_command_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to enable
    `per command statistics <arch_overview_redis_cluster_command_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for upstream clusters.
-   redis: added
    `read_policy <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.redis_proxy.v2.RedisProxy.ConnPoolSettings.read_policy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to allow reading from redis replicas for Redis Cluster
    deployments.
-   redis: fixed a bug where the redis health checker ignored the
    upstream auth password.
-   redis: enable_hashtaging is always enabled when the upstream uses
    open source Redis cluster protocol.
-   regex: introduced new
    `RegexMatcher <envoy_api_msg_type.matcher.RegexMatcher>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} type that provides a safe regex implementation for
    untrusted user input. This type is now used in all configuration
    that processes user provided input. See
    `deprecated configuration details
    <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} for more information.
-   rbac: added conditions to the policy, see
    `condition <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Policy.condition>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added
    `rq_retry_skipped_request_not_complete <config_http_filters_router_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} counter stat to router stats.
-   router:
    `scoped routing <arch_overview_http_routing_route_scope>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is supported.
-   router: added new
    `retriable-headers <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-retry-on>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} retry policy. Retries can now be configured to trigger
    by arbitrary response header matching.
-   router: added ability for most specific header mutations to take
    precedence, see `route configuration's most specific
    header mutations wins flag <envoy_api_field_RouteConfiguration.most_specific_header_mutations_wins>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added
    `respect_expected_rq_timeout <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.router.v2.Router.respect_expected_rq_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that instructs ingress Envoy to respect
    `config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-expected-rq-timeout-ms`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header, populated by egress Envoy, when deriving timeout
    for upstream cluster.
-   router: added new
    `retriable request headers <envoy_api_field_route.Route.per_request_buffer_limit_bytes>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to route configuration, to allow limiting buffering for
    retries and shadowing.
-   router: added new
    `retriable request headers <envoy_api_field_route.RetryPolicy.retriable_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to retry policies. Retries can now be configured to only
    trigger on request header match.
-   router: added the ability to match a route based on whether a TLS
    certificate has been
    `presented <envoy_api_field_route.RouteMatch.TlsContextMatchOptions.presented>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} by the downstream connection.
-   router check tool: added coverage reporting & enforcement.
-   router check tool: added comprehensive coverage reporting.
-   router check tool: added deprecated field check.
-   router check tool: added flag for only printing results of failed
    tests.
-   router check tool: added support for outputting missing tests in the
    detailed coverage report.
-   router check tool: added coverage reporting for direct response
    routes.
-   runtime: allows for the ability to parse boolean values.
-   runtime: allows for the ability to parse integers as double values
    and vice-versa.
-   sds: added
    `session_ticket_keys_sds_secret_config <envoy_api_field_auth.DownstreamTlsContext.session_ticket_keys_sds_secret_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for loading TLS Session Ticket Encryption Keys using SDS
    API.
-   server: added a post initialization lifecycle event, in addition to
    the existing startup and shutdown events.
-   server: added
    `per-handler listener stats <config_listener_stats_per_handler>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `per-worker watchdog stats <operations_performance_watchdog>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to help diagnosing event loop imbalance and general
    performance issues.
-   stats: added unit support to histogram.
-   tcp_proxy: the default `idle_timeout
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.tcp_proxy.v2.TcpProxy.idle_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is now 1 hour.
-   thrift_proxy: fixed crashing bug on invalid transport/protocol
    framing.
-   thrift_proxy: added support for stripping service name from method
    when using the multiplexed protocol.
-   tls: added verification of IP address SAN fields in certificates
    against configured SANs in the certificate validation context.
-   tracing: added support to the Zipkin reporter for sending list of
    spans as Zipkin JSON v2 and protobuf message over HTTP. certificate
    validation context.
-   tracing: added tags for gRPC response status and message.
-   tracing: added
    `max_path_tag_length <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.tracing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to support customizing the length of the request path
    included in the extracted
    [http.url](https://github.com/opentracing/specification/blob/master/semantic_conventions.md#standard-span-tags-and-log-fields)
    tag.
-   upstream: added
    `an option <envoy_api_field_Cluster.CommonLbConfig.close_connections_on_host_set_change>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that allows draining HTTP, TCP connection pools on
    cluster membership change.
-   upstream: added
    `transport_socket_matches <envoy_api_field_Cluster.transport_socket_matches>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, support using different transport socket config when
    connecting to different upstream endpoints within a cluster.
-   upstream: added network filter chains to upstream connections, see
    `filters<envoy_api_field_Cluster.filters>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   upstream: added new
    `failure-percentage based outlier detection<arch_overview_outlier_detection_failure_percentage>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} mode.
-   upstream: uses p2c to select hosts for least-requests load balancers
    if all host weights are the same, even in cases where weights are
    not equal to 1.
-   upstream: added
    `fail_traffic_on_panic <envoy_api_field_Cluster.CommonLbConfig.ZoneAwareLbConfig.fail_traffic_on_panic>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to allow failing all requests to a cluster during panic
    state.
-   zookeeper: parses responses and emits latency stats.

Deprecated
----------

-   The ORIGINAL_DST_LB
    `load balancing policy <envoy_api_field_Cluster.lb_policy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} is deprecated, use CLUSTER_PROVIDED policy instead when
    configuring an `original destination
    cluster <envoy_api_field_Cluster.type>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   The [regex]{.title-ref} field in
    `StringMatcher <envoy_api_msg_type.matcher.StringMatcher>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    [safe_regex]{.title-ref} field.
-   The [regex]{.title-ref} field in
    `RouteMatch <envoy_api_msg_route.RouteMatch>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    [safe_regex]{.title-ref} field.
-   The [allow_origin]{.title-ref} and [allow_origin_regex]{.title-ref}
    fields in `CorsPolicy
    <envoy_api_msg_route.CorsPolicy>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} have
    been deprecated in favor of the
    [allow_origin_string_match]{.title-ref} field.
-   The [pattern]{.title-ref} and [method]{.title-ref} fields in
    `VirtualCluster <envoy_api_msg_route.VirtualCluster>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} have been deprecated in favor of the
    [headers]{.title-ref} field.
-   The [regex_match]{.title-ref} field in
    `HeaderMatcher <envoy_api_msg_route.HeaderMatcher>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    [safe_regex_match]{.title-ref} field.
-   The [value]{.title-ref} and [regex]{.title-ref} fields in
    `QueryParameterMatcher
    <envoy_api_msg_route.QueryParameterMatcher>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    [string_match]{.title-ref} and [present_match]{.title-ref} fields.
-   The `--allow-unknown-fields`{.interpreted-text role="option"}
    command-line option, use
    `--allow-unknown-static-fields`{.interpreted-text role="option"}
    instead.
-   The use of HTTP_JSON_V1 `Zipkin collector endpoint version
    <envoy_api_field_config.trace.v2.ZipkinConfig.collector_endpoint_version>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} or not explicitly specifying it is deprecated, use
    HTTP_JSON or HTTP_PROTO instead.
-   The [operation_name]{.title-ref} field in `HTTP connection manager
    <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    [traffic_direction]{.title-ref} field in
    `Listener <envoy_api_msg_Listener>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.
    The latter takes priority if specified.
-   The [tls_context]{.title-ref} field in
    `Filter chain <envoy_api_field_listener.FilterChain.tls_context>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} message and
    `Cluster <envoy_api_field_Cluster.tls_context>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} message have been deprecated in favor of
    [transport_socket]{.title-ref} with name
    [envoy.transport_sockets.tls]{.title-ref}. The latter takes priority
    if specified.
-   The [use_http2]{.title-ref} field in
    `HTTP health checker <envoy_api_msg_core.HealthCheck.HttpHealthCheck>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    [codec_client_type]{.title-ref} field.
-   The use of
    `gRPC bridge filter <config_http_filters_grpc_bridge>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for gRPC stats has been deprecated in favor of the
    dedicated `gRPC stats
    filter <config_http_filters_grpc_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}
-   Ext_authz filter stats [ok]{.title-ref}, [error]{.title-ref},
    [denied]{.title-ref}, [failure_mode_allowed]{.title-ref} in
    *cluster.\<route target cluster\>.ext_authz.* namespace is
    deprecated. Use *http.\<stat_prefix\>.ext_authz.* namespace to
    access same counters instead.
-   Use of google.protobuf.Struct for extension opaque configs is
    deprecated. Use google.protobuf.Any instead or pack
    udpa.type.v1.TypedStruct in google.protobuf.Any.
