1.13.0 (January 20, 2020)
=========================

Changes
-------

-   access log: added FILTER_STATE
    `access log formatters <config_access_log_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and gRPC access logger.
-   admin: added the ability to filter
    `/config_dump <operations_admin_interface_config_dump>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access log: added a
    `typed JSON logging mode <config_access_log_format_dictionaries>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to output access logs in JSON format with non-string
    values
-   access log: fixed UPSTREAM_LOCAL_ADDRESS
    `access log formatters <config_access_log_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to work for http requests
-   access log: added HOSTNAME.
-   api: remove all support for v1
-   api: added ability to specify [mode]{.title-ref} for
    `Pipe <envoy_api_field_core.Pipe.mode>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   api: support for the v3 xDS API added. See
    `api_supported_versions`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}.
-   aws_request_signing: added new alpha
    `HTTP AWS request signing filter <config_http_filters_aws_request_signing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   buffer: remove old implementation
-   build: official released binary is now built against libc++.
-   cluster: added
    `aggregate cluster <arch_overview_aggregate_cluster>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that allows load balancing between clusters.
-   config: all category names of internal envoy extensions are prefixed
    with the \'envoy.\' prefix to follow the reverse DNS naming
    notation.
-   decompressor: remove decompressor hard assert failure and replace
    with an error flag.
-   ext_authz: added
    `configurable ability<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.ext_authz.v2.ExtAuthz.include_peer_certificate>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to send the
    `certificate<envoy_api_field_service.auth.v2.AttributeContext.Peer.certificate>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to the [ext_authz]{.title-ref} service.
-   fault: fixed an issue where the http fault filter would repeatedly
    check the percentage of abort/delay when the
    [x-envoy-downstream-service-cluster]{.title-ref} header was included
    in the request to ensure that the actual percentage of abort/delay
    matches the configuration of the filter.
-   health check: gRPC health checker sets the gRPC deadline to the
    configured timeout duration.
-   health check: added
    `TlsOptions <envoy_api_msg_core.HealthCheck.TlsOptions>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to allow TLS configuration overrides.
-   health check: added
    `service_name_matcher <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.HttpHealthCheck.service_name_matcher>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to better compare the service name patterns for health
    check identity.
-   http: added strict validation that CONNECT is refused as it is not
    yet implemented. This can be reversed temporarily by setting the
    runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.strict_method_validation]{.title-ref} to
    false.
-   http: added support for http1 trailers. To enable use
    `enable_trailers <envoy_api_field_core.Http1ProtocolOptions.enable_trailers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   http: added the ability to sanitize headers nominated by the
    Connection header. This new behavior is guarded by
    envoy.reloadable_features.connection_header_sanitization which
    defaults to true.
-   http: blocks unsupported transfer-encodings. Can be reverted
    temporarily by setting runtime feature
    [envoy.reloadable_features.reject_unsupported_transfer_encodings]{.title-ref}
    to false.
-   http: support
    `auto_host_rewrite_header<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.dynamic_forward_proxy.v2alpha.PerRouteConfig.auto_host_rewrite_header>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} in the dynamic forward proxy.
-   jwt_authn: added
    `allow_missing<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.jwt_authn.v2alpha.JwtRequirement.allow_missing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} option that accepts request without token but rejects
    bad request with bad tokens.
-   jwt_authn: added
    `bypass_cors_preflight<envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.jwt_authn.v2alpha.JwtAuthentication.bypass_cors_preflight>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to allow bypassing the CORS preflight request.
-   lb_subset_config: new fallback policy for selectors:
    `KEYS_SUBSET<envoy_api_enum_value_Cluster.LbSubsetConfig.LbSubsetSelector.LbSubsetSelectorFallbackPolicy.KEYS_SUBSET>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}
-   listeners: added
    `reuse_port<envoy_api_field_Listener.reuse_port>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} option.
-   logger: added
    `--log-format-escaped <operations_cli>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} command line option to escape newline characters in
    application logs.
-   ratelimit: added
    `local rate limit <config_network_filters_local_rate_limit>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} network filter.
-   rbac: added support for matching all subject alt names instead of
    first in
    `principal_name <envoy_api_field_config.rbac.v2.Principal.Authenticated.principal_name>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   redis: performance improvement for larger split commands by avoiding
    string copies.
-   redis: correctly follow MOVE/ASK redirection for mirrored clusters.
-   redis: add
    `host_degraded_refresh_threshold <envoy_api_field_config.cluster.redis.RedisClusterConfig.host_degraded_refresh_threshold>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `failure_refresh_threshold <envoy_api_field_config.cluster.redis.RedisClusterConfig.failure_refresh_threshold>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to refresh topology when nodes are degraded or when
    requests fails.
-   router: added histograms to show timeout budget usage to the
    `cluster stats <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router check tool: added support for testing and marking coverage
    for routes of runtime fraction 0.
-   router: added
    `request_mirror_policies<envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.request_mirror_policies>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to support sending multiple mirrored requests in one
    route.
-   router: added support for REQ(header-name)
    `header formatter <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added support for percentage-based
    `retry budgets <envoy_api_field_cluster.CircuitBreakers.Thresholds.retry_budget>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}
-   router: allow using a
    `query parameter <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.HashPolicy.query_parameter>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for HTTP consistent hashing.
-   router: exposed DOWNSTREAM_REMOTE_ADDRESS as custom HTTP
    request/response headers.
-   router: added support for
    `max_internal_redirects <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.max_internal_redirects>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for configurable maximum internal redirect hops.
-   router: skip the Location header when the response code is not a 201
    or a 3xx.
-   router: added
    `auto_sni <envoy_api_field_core.UpstreamHttpProtocolOptions.auto_sni>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to support setting SNI to transport socket for new
    upstream connections based on the downstream HTTP host/authority
    header.
-   router: added support for HOSTNAME `header formatter
    <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   server: added the `--disable-extensions`{.interpreted-text
    role="option"} CLI option, to disable extensions at startup.
-   server: fixed a bug in config validation for configs with runtime
    layers.
-   server: added
    `workers_started <config_listener_manager_stats>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} that indicates whether listeners have been fully
    initialized on workers.
-   tcp_proxy: added
    `ClusterWeight.metadata_match<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.tcp_proxy.v2.TcpProxy.WeightedCluster.ClusterWeight.metadata_match>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tcp_proxy: added
    `hash_policy<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.tcp_proxy.v2.TcpProxy.hash_policy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   thrift_proxy: added support for cluster header based routing.
-   thrift_proxy: added stats to the router filter.
-   tls: remove TLS 1.0 and 1.1 from client defaults
-   tls: added support for
    `generic string matcher <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.match_subject_alt_names>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for subject alternative names.
-   tracing: added the ability to set custom tags on both the
    `HTTP connection manager<envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.tracing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and the
    `HTTP route <envoy_api_field_route.Route.tracing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tracing: added upstream_address tag.
-   tracing: added initial support for AWS X-Ray (local sampling rules
    only)
    `X-Ray Tracing <envoy_api_msg_config.trace.v2alpha.XRayConfig>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tracing: added tags for gRPC request path, authority, content-type
    and timeout.
-   udp: added initial support for
    `UDP proxy <config_udp_listener_filters_udp_proxy>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}

Deprecated
----------

-   The [request_headers_for_tags]{.title-ref} field in
    `HTTP connection manager
    <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.Tracing>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the `custom_tags
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.tracing.custom_tags>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field.
-   The [verify_subject_alt_name]{.title-ref} field in
    `Certificate Validation Context
    <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.verify_subject_alt_name>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    `match_subject_alt_names
    <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.match_subject_alt_names>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} field.
-   The [request_mirror_policy]{.title-ref} field in
    `RouteMatch <envoy_api_msg_route.RouteAction>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    [request_mirror_policies]{.title-ref} field.
-   The [service_name]{.title-ref} field in
    `HTTP health checker <envoy_api_msg_core.HealthCheck.HttpHealthCheck>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been deprecated in favor of the
    [service_name_matcher]{.title-ref} field.
-   The v2 xDS API is deprecated. It will be supported by Envoy until
    EOY 2020. See `api_supported_versions`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
