1.4.0 (August 24, 2017)
=======================

Changes
-------

-   macOS is
    `now supported </bazel#quick-start-bazel-build-for-developers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="repo"}. (A few features are missing such as hot restart and
    original destination routing).
-   YAML is now directly supported for config files.
-   Added /routes admin endpoint.
-   End-to-end flow control is now supported for TCP proxy, HTTP/1, and
    HTTP/2. HTTP flow control that includes filter buffering is
    incomplete and will be implemented in 1.5.0.
-   Log verbosity
    `compile time flag </bazel#log-verbosity>`{.interpreted-text
    role="repo"} added.
-   Hot restart
    `compile time flag </bazel#hot-restart>`{.interpreted-text
    role="repo"} added.
-   Original destination
    `cluster <arch_overview_service_discovery_types_original_destination>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `load balancer <arch_overview_load_balancing_types_original_destination>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} added.
-   `WebSocket <arch_overview_upgrades>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    is now supported.
-   Virtual cluster priorities have been hard removed without
    deprecation as we are reasonably sure no one is using this feature.
-   Route [validate_clusters]{.title-ref} option added.
-   `x-envoy-downstream-service-node <config_http_conn_man_headers_downstream-service-node>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header added.
-   `x-forwarded-client-cert <config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header added.
-   Initial HTTP/1 forward proxy support for absolute URLs has been
    added.
-   HTTP/2 codec settings are now configurable.
-   gRPC/JSON transcoder
    `filter <config_http_filters_grpc_json_transcoder>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} added.
-   gRPC web `filter <config_http_filters_grpc_web>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} added.
-   Configurable timeout for the rate limit service call in the `network
    <config_network_filters_rate_limit>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    and `HTTP <config_http_filters_rate_limit>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} rate limit filters.
-   `x-envoy-retry-grpc-on <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-retry-grpc-on>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header added.
-   `LDS API <arch_overview_dynamic_config_lds>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} added.
-   TLS :[require_client_certificate]{.title-ref} option added.
-   `Configuration check tool <install_tools_config_load_check_tool>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} added.
-   `JSON schema check tool <install_tools_schema_validator_check_tool>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} added.
-   Config validation mode added via the `--mode`{.interpreted-text
    role="option"} option.
-   `--local-address-ip-version`{.interpreted-text role="option"} option
    added.
-   IPv6 support is now complete.
-   UDP [statsd_ip_address]{.title-ref} option added.
-   Per-cluster DNS resolvers added.
-   `Fault filter <config_http_filters_fault_injection>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} enhancements and fixes.
-   Several features are
    `deprecated as of the 1.4.0 release <deprecated>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}. They will be removed at the beginning of the 1.5.0
    release cycle. We explicitly call out that the
    [HttpFilterConfigFactory]{.title-ref} filter API has been deprecated
    in favor of [NamedHttpFilterConfigFactory]{.title-ref}.
-   Many small bug fixes and performance improvements not listed.

Deprecated
----------

-   Config option [statsd_local_udp_port]{.title-ref} has been
    deprecated and has been replaced with
    [statsd_udp_ip_address]{.title-ref}.
-   [HttpFilterConfigFactory]{.title-ref} filter API has been deprecated
    in favor of [NamedHttpFilterConfigFactory]{.title-ref}.
-   Config option [http_codec_options]{.title-ref} has been deprecated
    and has been replaced with [http2_settings]{.title-ref}.
-   The following log macros have been deprecated:
    [log_trace]{.title-ref}, [log_debug]{.title-ref},
    [conn_log]{.title-ref}, [conn_log_info]{.title-ref},
    [conn_log_debug]{.title-ref}, [conn_log_trace]{.title-ref},
    [stream_log]{.title-ref}, [stream_log_info]{.title-ref},
    [stream_log_debug]{.title-ref}, [stream_log_trace]{.title-ref}. For
    replacements, please see
    [logger.h](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/source/common/common/logger.h).
-   The connectionId() and ssl() callbacks of StreamFilterCallbacks have
    been deprecated and replaced with a more general connection()
    callback, which, when not returning a nullptr, can be used to get
    the connection id and SSL connection from the returned Connection
    object pointer.
-   The protobuf stub gRPC support via
    [Grpc::RpcChannelImpl]{.title-ref} is now replaced with
    [Grpc::AsyncClientImpl]{.title-ref}. This no longer uses
    [protoc]{.title-ref} generated stubs but instead utilizes C++
    template generation of the RPC stubs.
    [Grpc::AsyncClientImpl]{.title-ref} supports streaming, in addition
    to the previous unary, RPCs.
-   The direction of network and HTTP filters in the configuration will
    be ignored from 1.4.0 and later removed from the configuration in
    the v2 APIs. Filter direction is now implied at the C++ type level.
    The [type()]{.title-ref} methods on the
    [NamedNetworkFilterConfigFactory]{.title-ref} and
    [NamedHttpFilterConfigFactory]{.title-ref} interfaces have been
    removed to reflect this.
