1.7.0 (Jun 21, 2018)
====================

Changes
-------

-   access log: added ability to log response trailers.
-   access log: added ability to format START_TIME.
-   access log: added DYNAMIC_METADATA
    `access log formatter <config_access_log_format>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access log: added
    `HeaderFilter <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.accesslog.v2.HeaderFilter>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to filter logs based on request headers.
-   access log: added [%(\[1-9\])?f]{.title-ref} as one of START_TIME
    specifiers to render subseconds.
-   access log: gRPC Access Log Service (ALS) support added for
    `HTTP access logs
    <envoy_api_msg_config.accesslog.v2.HttpGrpcAccessLogConfig>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   access log: improved WebSocket logging.
-   admin: added :<http:get>:[/config_dump]{.title-ref} for dumping the
    current configuration and associated xDS version information (if
    applicable).
-   admin: added :<http:get>:[/clusters?format=json]{.title-ref} for
    outputing a JSON-serialized proto detailing the current status of
    all clusters.
-   admin: added :<http:get>:[/stats/prometheus]{.title-ref} as an
    alternative endpoint for getting stats in prometheus format.
-   admin: added
    `/runtime_modify endpoint <operations_admin_interface_runtime_modify>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to add or change runtime values.
-   admin: mutations must be sent as POSTs, rather than GETs. Mutations
    include: :<http:post>:[/cpuprofiler]{.title-ref},
    :<http:post>:[/healthcheck/fail]{.title-ref},
    :<http:post>:[/healthcheck/ok]{.title-ref},
    :<http:post>:[/logging]{.title-ref},
    :<http:post>:[/quitquitquit]{.title-ref},
    :<http:post>:[/reset_counters]{.title-ref},
    :<http:post>:[/runtime_modify?key1=value1&key2=value2&keyN=valueN]{.title-ref}.
-   admin: removed [/routes]{.title-ref} endpoint; route configs can now
    be found at the
    `/config_dump endpoint <operations_admin_interface_config_dump>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   buffer filter: the buffer filter can be optionally
    `disabled <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.buffer.v2.BufferPerRoute.disabled>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} or
    `overridden <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.buffer.v2.BufferPerRoute.buffer>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} with route-local configuration.
-   cli: added \--config-yaml flag to the Envoy binary. When set its
    value is interpreted as a yaml representation of the bootstrap
    config and overrides \--config-path.
-   cluster: added
    `option <envoy_api_field_Cluster.close_connections_on_host_health_failure>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to close tcp_proxy upstream connections when health
    checks fail.
-   cluster: added
    `option <envoy_api_field_Cluster.drain_connections_on_host_removal>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to drain connections from hosts after they are removed
    from service discovery, regardless of health status.
-   cluster: fixed bug preventing the deletion of all endpoints in a
    priority
-   debug: added symbolized stack traces (where supported)
-   ext-authz filter: added support to raw HTTP authorization.
-   ext-authz filter: added support to gRPC responses to carry HTTP
    attributes.
-   grpc: support added for the full set of
    `Google gRPC call credentials
    <envoy_api_msg_core.GrpcService.GoogleGrpc.CallCredentials>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   gzip filter: added `stats <gzip-statistics>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to the filter.
-   gzip filter: sending *accept-encoding* header as *identity* no
    longer compresses the payload.
-   health check: added ability to set `additional HTTP headers
    <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.HttpHealthCheck.request_headers_to_add>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} for HTTP health check.
-   health check: added support for EDS delivered
    `endpoint health status
    <envoy_api_field_endpoint.LbEndpoint.health_status>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health check: added interval overrides for health state transitions
    from `healthy to unhealthy
    <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.unhealthy_edge_interval>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, `unhealthy to healthy
    <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.healthy_edge_interval>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and for subsequent checks on
    `unhealthy hosts <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.unhealthy_interval>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health check: added support for
    `custom health check <envoy_api_field_core.HealthCheck.custom_health_check>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   health check: health check connections can now be configured to use
    http/2.
-   health check http filter: added
    `generic header matching <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.health_check.v2.HealthCheck.headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to trigger health check response. Deprecated the
    endpoint option.
-   http: filters can now optionally support
    `virtual host <envoy_api_field_route.VirtualHost.per_filter_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"},
    `route <envoy_api_field_route.Route.per_filter_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}, and
    `weighted cluster <envoy_api_field_route.WeightedCluster.ClusterWeight.per_filter_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} local configuration.
-   http: added the ability to pass DNS type Subject Alternative Names
    of the client certificate in the
    `config_http_conn_man_headers_x-forwarded-client-cert`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header.
-   http: local responses to gRPC requests are now sent as trailers-only
    gRPC responses instead of plain HTTP responses. Notably the HTTP
    response code is always \"200\" in this case, and the gRPC error
    code is carried in \"grpc-status\" header, optionally accompanied
    with a text message in \"grpc-message\" header.
-   http: added support for `via header
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.via>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} append.
-   http: added a `configuration option
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager.skip_xff_append>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to elide *x-forwarded-for* header modifications.
-   http: fixed a bug in inline headers where addCopy and addViaMove
    didn\'t add header values when encountering inline headers with
    multiple instances.
-   listeners: added
    `tcp_fast_open_queue_length <envoy_api_field_Listener.tcp_fast_open_queue_length>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} option.
-   listeners: added the ability to match
    `FilterChain <envoy_api_msg_listener.FilterChain>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} using
    `application_protocols <envoy_api_field_listener.FilterChainMatch.application_protocols>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} (e.g. ALPN for TLS protocol).
-   listeners: [sni_domains]{.title-ref} has been deprecated/renamed to
    `server_names <envoy_api_field_listener.FilterChainMatch.server_names>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   listeners: removed restriction on all filter chains having identical
    filters.
-   load balancer: added `weighted round robin
    <arch_overview_load_balancing_types_round_robin>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} support. The round robin scheduler now respects endpoint
    weights and also has improved fidelity across picks.
-   load balancer: `locality weighted load balancing
    <arch_overview_load_balancer_subsets>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    is now supported.
-   load balancer: ability to configure zone aware load balancer
    settings `through the API
    <envoy_api_field_Cluster.CommonLbConfig.zone_aware_lb_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   load balancer: the `weighted least request
    <arch_overview_load_balancing_types_least_request>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} load balancing algorithm has been improved to have
    better balance when operating in weighted mode.
-   logger: added the ability to optionally set the log format via the
    `--log-format`{.interpreted-text role="option"} option.
-   logger: all
    `logging levels <operations_admin_interface_logging>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} can be configured at run-time: trace debug info warning
    error critical.
-   rbac http filter: a
    `role-based access control http filter <config_http_filters_rbac>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} has been added.
-   router: the behavior of per-try timeouts have changed in the case
    where a portion of the response has already been proxied downstream
    when the timeout occurs. Previously, the response would be reset
    leading to either an HTTP/2 reset or an HTTP/1 closed connection and
    a partial response. Now, the timeout will be ignored and the
    response will continue to proxy up to the global request timeout.
-   router: changed the behavior of
    `source IP routing <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.HashPolicy.ConnectionProperties.source_ip>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to ignore the source port.
-   router: added an
    `prefix_match <envoy_api_field_route.HeaderMatcher.prefix_match>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} match type to explicitly match based on the prefix of a
    header value.
-   router: added an
    `suffix_match <envoy_api_field_route.HeaderMatcher.suffix_match>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} match type to explicitly match based on the suffix of a
    header value.
-   router: added an
    `present_match <envoy_api_field_route.HeaderMatcher.present_match>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} match type to explicitly match based on a header\'s
    presence.
-   router: added an
    `invert_match <envoy_api_field_route.HeaderMatcher.invert_match>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} config option which supports inverting all other match
    types to match based on headers which are not a desired value.
-   router: allow
    `cookie routing <envoy_api_msg_route.RouteAction.HashPolicy.Cookie>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to generate session cookies.
-   router: added START_TIME as one of supported variables in `header
    formatters <config_http_conn_man_headers_custom_request_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   router: added a
    `max_grpc_timeout <envoy_api_field_route.RouteAction.max_grpc_timeout>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} config option to specify the maximum allowable value for
    timeouts decoded from gRPC header field [grpc-timeout]{.title-ref}.
-   router: added a `configuration option
    <envoy_api_field_config.filter.http.router.v2.Router.suppress_envoy_headers>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to disable *x-envoy-* header generation.
-   router: added \'unavailable\' to the retriable gRPC status codes
    that can be specified through
    `x-envoy-retry-grpc-on <config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-retry-grpc-on>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   sockets: added
    `tap transport socket extension <operations_traffic_tapping>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} to support recording plain text traffic and PCAP
    generation.
-   sockets: added [IP_FREEBIND]{.title-ref} socket option support for
    `listeners
    <envoy_api_field_Listener.freebind>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
    and upstream connections via `cluster manager wide
    <envoy_api_field_config.bootstrap.v2.ClusterManager.upstream_bind_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `cluster specific <envoy_api_field_Cluster.upstream_bind_config>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} options.
-   sockets: added [IP_TRANSPARENT]{.title-ref} socket option support
    for `listeners
    <envoy_api_field_Listener.transparent>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   sockets: added [SO_KEEPALIVE]{.title-ref} socket option for upstream
    connections
    `per cluster <envoy_api_field_Cluster.upstream_connection_options>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   stats: added support for histograms.
-   stats: added
    `option to configure the statsd prefix<envoy_api_field_config.metrics.v2.StatsdSink.prefix>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   stats: updated stats sink interface to flush through a single call.
-   tls: added support for
    `verify_certificate_spki <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.verify_certificate_spki>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tls: added support for multiple
    `verify_certificate_hash <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.verify_certificate_hash>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} values.
-   tls: added support for using
    `verify_certificate_spki <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.verify_certificate_spki>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} and
    `verify_certificate_hash <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.verify_certificate_hash>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} without
    `trusted_ca <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.trusted_ca>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tls: added support for allowing expired certificates with
    `allow_expired_certificate <envoy_api_field_auth.CertificateValidationContext.allow_expired_certificate>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   tls: added support for
    `renegotiation <envoy_api_field_auth.UpstreamTlsContext.allow_renegotiation>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} when acting as a client.
-   tls: removed support for legacy SHA-2 CBC cipher suites.
-   tracing: the sampling decision is now delegated to the tracers,
    allowing the tracer to decide when and if to use it. For example, if
    the
    `x-b3-sampled <config_http_conn_man_headers_x-b3-sampled>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"} header is supplied with the client request, its value
    will override any sampling decision made by the Envoy proxy.
-   websocket: support configuring idle_timeout and
    max_connect_attempts.
-   upstream: added support for host override for a request in
    `Original destination host request header <arch_overview_load_balancing_types_original_destination_request_header>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.
-   header to metadata: added
    `HTTP Header to Metadata filter<config_http_filters_header_to_metadata>`{.interpreted-text
    role="ref"}.

Deprecated
----------

-   Admin mutations should be sent as POSTs rather than GETs. HTTP GETs
    will result in an error status code and will not have their intended
    effect. Prior to 1.7, GETs can be used for admin mutations, but a
    warning is logged.
-   Rate limit service configuration via the [cluster_name]{.title-ref}
    field is deprecated. Use [grpc_service]{.title-ref} instead.
-   gRPC service configuration via the [cluster_names]{.title-ref} field
    in [ApiConfigSource]{.title-ref} is deprecated. Use
    [grpc_services]{.title-ref} instead. Prior to 1.7, a warning is
    logged.
-   Redis health checker configuration via the
    [redis_health_check]{.title-ref} field in [HealthCheck]{.title-ref}
    is deprecated. Use [custom_health_check]{.title-ref} with name
    [envoy.health_checkers.redis]{.title-ref} instead. Prior to 1.7,
    [redis_health_check]{.title-ref} can be used, but warning is logged.
-   [SAN]{.title-ref} is replaced by [URI]{.title-ref} in the
    [x-forwarded-client-cert]{.title-ref} header.
-   The [endpoint]{.title-ref} field in the http health check filter is
    deprecated in favor of the [headers]{.title-ref} field where one can
    specify HeaderMatch objects to match on.
-   The [sni_domains]{.title-ref} field in the filter chain match was
    deprecated/renamed to [server_names]{.title-ref}.
